<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Plan to Shift Oversight of Index Futures
   To SEC Is Unveiled by Administration
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration unveiled its
long-awaited proposal to shift oversight of stock-index
futures to the Securities and Exchange Commission, and would
place the products under the agency's stricter approach to
enforcement.
   The measure also would grant the SEC the power to oversee
stock-index futures margins, or the good-faith money needed
to trade the products. The commodity exchanges currently set
those margins, with federal oversight only in emergencies.
Treasury and SEC officials have cited low index-futures
margins as causes for the 1987 and 1989 market drops.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Index futures, currently regulated by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, enable investors to bet on the
movement of a basket of stocks without owning the actual
securities. Trading in stocks and stock options is overseen
by the SEC. While index futures are widely used by large
institutional investors to control stock-market risk, they
also are used in computer-aided program-trading strategies.
   "The fact that we have separate regulators at this time is
history," said Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady. "It's the
way things started, but it's not the way things should be."
   The proposal now goes to Capitol Hill, where Treasury
officials say it will be introduced in the House at the
administration's request by Rep. John Dingell, the Michigan
Democrat who heads the Energy and Commerce Committee. In the
Senate, Slade Gorton (R., Wash.) and John Heinz (R., Pa.)
will sponsor both a free-standing bill and an amendment to
either pending SEC or CFTC legislation, the Treasury aides
said. A Senate source said it probably will be substituted
for an amendment Mr. Gorton already has proposed to a bill
beefing up the CFTC.
   "The Treasury proposal improves on my original idea of
simply changing jurisdiction," Sen. Gorton said. "It will
allow for innovative new products and strengthened
enforcement."
   The Treasury measure, which took weeks longer to craft
than officials there had expected, faces something of a tough
road, particularly in the Senate. While the Banking
committees are expected to support it and the Agriculture
committees will oppose it, many Capitol Hill leaders are
current or former members of the Agriculture committees.
Those include Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R., Kan.)
and House Speaker Thomas Foley (D. Wash.).
   Sen. Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.), who heads the Agriculture
Committee, said he opposes the proposal and plans to fight it
vigorously on the Senate floor.
   The Treasury said the measure is designed for "minimum
disruption to the markets." Stock-index futures would
continue to be regulated as commodities under the Commodity
Exchange Act.
   But the SEC would "enhance" regulation with securities
anti-fraud provisions, such as the prohibition of insider
trading and rules that require a "suitability" test for a
salesperson to sell a product to a customer. The agency,
created after the 1929 crash, is designed to focus on
protecting the individual investor. CFTC oversight is largely
based on the premise that most futures-markets investors are
institutions that need fewer protections.
   A CFTC spokeswoman said the futures markets already have
their own provisions similar to the insider-trading rules and
securities-markets suitability rules. "We are opposed to the
jurisdictional changes," she said.
   The Chicago Board of Trade also opposed the measure,
calling it "creeping regulatory imperialism."
   But Mr. Brady, who is supported in the jurisdiction fight
by the SEC, said, "This is good common sense. It's good for
the American people, and it ought to be law." He said that
the measure would allow for closer coordination among the
stock, options and futures markets and that it wouldn't have
much effect on program trading.
   The bill also would carry out another long-promised
Treasury plan to change a clause of the Commodity Exchange
Act to allow products with futures elements to be traded on
securities exchanges.
   The Treasury also said that if the bill isn't passed, "it
is more likely that minor events will trigger major market
disruptions like the ones we experienced in October of 1987
and October of 1989."
   That statement immediately brought complaints from Sen.
Leahy, who called it "false advertising."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Chairman Sheds Fruit of the Loom Stock
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   FTL X.FRY WEN CHL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Beleaguered William Farley, chairman of Fruit
of the Loom Inc., has sold $7.3 million of stock in the
Chicago-based underwear, socks and sweatshirt company since
March, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
show.
   In addition, according to a "notice of proposed sale"
filed with the SEC on May 15, Mr. Farley planned to sell as
much as $3.9 million more of Fruit of the Loom stock. The
Form 144 notice said he would sell as many as 280,500 shares
"ASAP" (as soon as possible).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sales come at a time when Farley Inc., the highly
leveraged holding company in which Mr. Farley is the majority
stockholder, is tottering under its mountain of debt. Farley
Inc. holds a 20% stake in Fruit of the Loom.
   Mr. Farley declined to be interviewed for this article,
and the company declined to confirm SEC figures. A
spokeswoman said Mr. Farley sold for "personal reasons," and
added that he "expects another record-setting year for Fruit
of the Loom."
   The sales, both past and planned, represent 38% of Mr.
Farley's personal common A stockholdings in the company,
according to SEC filings. They show he also holds an
additional 15.2 million common B shares, which are
exchangeable for common A shares at the rate of 1-to-1.
   Mr. Farley sold 555,000 shares at $12.88 to $13.75 a share
between March 23 and the end of April, the SEC filings show.
In composite trading on the American Stock Exchange
yesterday, Fruit of the Loom shares closed at $13.75, down 25
cents.
   Analysts said the sales reflect more negatively on Farley
Inc., and Mr. Farley's own need for cash for his other
troubled businesses, than on Fruit of the Loom. The question
for investors, they said, is whether Farley's stake in Fruit
of the Loom will enable the company to remain insulated from
Farley Inc.'s serious debt problems.
   Farley Inc. acquired West Point-Pepperell Inc., the sheet
and towel manufacturer, after a bitter and costly battle
early last year. Technically, however, the leveraged buy-out
was never completed. In March of this year, Farley defaulted
on $1.5 billion in debt and then offered to relinquish a
majority stake in West Point if bondholders would agree to
less attractive bond yields and deferred payments.
Negotiations with bondholders and Farley's lenders continue.
   As for Fruit of the Loom, for the first quarter, the
company reported earnings of $12.8 million, or 20 cents a
share, compared with $7.7 million, or 12 cents a share, a
year earlier.
   Paul Shaum, high-yield bond analyst at Salomon Brothers
Inc., who tracks Fruit of the Loom's $504 million of junk
debt (and the $1.2 billion of junk securities sold by Farley
and West Point Acquisition Corp.), said Fruit of the Loom's
growth has been "phenomenal." Its sportswear division in
particular has benefited from the "active health kick in the
country."
   ---
   LITTLE GULPS: In May, nine insiders at restaurant-chain
Wendy's International Inc. bought between 300 and 10,000
shares each. Their purchases followed larger purchases by the
company's chairman and by its president last February. In
fact, so far this year, 17 Wendy's insiders have purchased
its stock, a total of 119,100 shares, SEC filings show.
   The insiders paid prices ranging from $4 to $4.88 a share,
the SEC filings show. The stock has since risen, closing
yesterday at $6, up 25 cents, in composite New York Stock
Exchange trading.
   A recent increase in profitability as measured in
operating earnings is one reason company insiders have
confidence, said spokesman Dennis Lynch, who bought 1,000
shares in February. He also cited Wendy's advertising
campaign, which features TV commercials with Chairman R.
David Thomas.
   In general, the insiders who bought in May only nibbled,
each of them spending $47,500 or less on the shares. But
three of the insiders were first-time buyers and, for most of
the others, their small purchases represented a substantial
increase in their current holdings. The largest recent
purchase was made by Director James V. Pickett, chief
executive officer of Pickett Cos., based in Columbus, Ohio.
He purchased 10,000 shares at $4.75 a share, increasing his
total holdings to 42,271 shares. He couldn't be reached for
comment.
   In February, President James W. Near bought 40,000 shares,
boosting his holdings to 546,820 shares. In the same month,
Mr. Thomas purchased 29,800 shares, raising his total
holdings to 7.4 million shares. Mr. Near declined to comment,
and Mr. Thomas couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   CHEMISTRY SET: Two prominent directors of New York-based
banking conglomerate Chemical Banking Corp. bought its shares
in April and May, SEC filings show. Their purchases were
small, but they bring to six the number of insiders who have
purchased Chemical stock through the middle of last month,
compared with four insiders in all of 1989.
   Paul A. Funkhouser, former president of CSX Corp., bought
1,000 shares at $23.75 each on April 26. The purchase
increased his total holdings to 7,044 shares, according to
SEC filings. On May 14, Lawrence G. Rawl, the chairman of
Exxon Corp., also bought 1,000 shares. He paid $26.25 a
share, bringing his total direct and indirect holdings to
1,790 shares, SEC filings show. Mr. Funkhouser was out of his
office and unable to comment; a spokeswoman for Exxon said
Mr. Rawl's purchase was "a personal move."
   The other four insiders who bought earlier this year
purchased between 120 and 5,000 shares each, according to
insider filings, increasing their holdings by 16% to 152%.
   Chemical's stock has continued to rise, closing yesterday
on the New York Stock Exchange at $28.75 a share, up 37.5
cents. The stock has climbed despite bearishness on the part
of the rating concerns. In late April and early May, Moody's
Investors Services Inc. downgraded the credit ratings of
Chemical Banking Corp. and certain of its subsidiaries,
including Chemical Bank, in addition to the debt ratings of
80 transactions backed by letters of credit from Chemical.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Opera: Larsen's Monster
   ----
   By Heidi Waleson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   St. Paul, Minn. -- Libby Larsen has come up with a way to
make contemporary opera both musically current and accessible
to the average audience. Her "Frankenstein: The Modern
Prometheus," handsomely produced by the Minnesota Opera and
enthusiastically received at the sold-out premiere in the
World Theater here, treads an engaging middle ground between
the metaphysical spectacles of the avant-garde, represented
by Philip Glass, and the world of "La Boheme" and
"Rigoletto."
   "Frankenstein" unfolds like a regular old story opera,
with characters who sing and interact intelligibly in
English. For the orchestra, however, Ms. Larsen takes her cue
from rock and roll and from Mr. Glass: the 15-member
ensemble, sensitively conducted by Dale Johnson, includes
both acoustic instruments (strings, winds, trumpet and
percussion) and electronic keyboards and synthesizers. All
the sounds are mixed electronically and emanate from
speakers. What is more, Ms. Larsen has given the orchestra a
starring role, and made video and mime an indispensable
component of its impact.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Larsen compresses Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley's
classic novel into 90 minutes without intermission. The
scientist Victor Frankenstein (Steven Tharp), aided by his
friend Henry (Bradley Greenwald) and his little brother
William (Andrew Ashcroft), attempt to harness an electrical
storm to bring a dead rat to life. That attempt fails, but
later, as his fiance, Elizabeth (Elisabeth Comeaux), pleads
with him to leave the laboratory and come to dinner,
Frankenstein animates a human cadaver. When the scientist
recoils from his creation's experimental embrace, the monster
runs away and murders William; a family friend, Justine (Mary
Laymon), is hanged for the murder. The monster then asks
Frankenstein to create a mate for him. When the scientist
refuses, the monster kills Elizabeth and Henry, and the
scientist is left to wander the world alone in search of his
creation.
   Ms. Larsen, who wrote the libretto as well as the music,
was attracted to the cosmic rather than the horror-movie
aspects of the Shelley story. Her program notes comment on
historical parallels in scientific hubris (18th-century
alchemy and 20th-century nuclear research), and she compares
Frankenstein to that remorseful father of the U.S. atomic
bomb, J.R. Oppenheimer, and the unrepentant Nazi medical
experimenter Josef Mengele (]), "who, by succumbing to
intellectual egotism and ambition, become aliens in the
society they wish to enrich."
   That's what she says, but in her opera, the cosmic tale
has less impact than the personal drama of the monster
created and then cast out. The monster, played mutely and
with tremendous physical presence and grace by dancer/mime
Christian Swenson, is the opera's most sympathetic character,
despite the havoc he wreaks. The havoc, after all, is the
result of Frankenstein's inability to love and care for his
creation. It is as though the woman in the composer says,
"See what happens when men try to give birth]"
   It is a curious opera in which the most affecting
character doesn't sing, but then, the orchestra is Ms.
Larsen's medium. She is no minimalist: Her music is
rhythmically varied, pictorial and harmonically dramatic. The
monster's "voice" comes through in the opera's most
compelling moments: two non-vocal central set pieces. First
is the creature's awakening, in which a tight, vivid
orchestral section evokes an electrical storm, the monster's
disorientation, and finally his poignant, tentative bid for
affection from Frankenstein.
   There may be no words, but there are pictures. A large
movie screen shows the audience what the monster sees. At
first out of focus, the scientist's face, hugely enlarged,
looms into view, as seen from below, with a silver locket
swinging before it. When the monster reaches up and seizes
the locket, the orchestra and the videos magnify the shock
value as powerfully as a traditional composer might have with
a few roulades or a high C. During the second set piece, when
the monster "explains" William's murder, the video shows a
snowy forest tilting crazily as the monster, lost and cold,
stumbles through it, meeting deer (with their young, of
course) and finally coming upon Frankenstein's family and
friends, who are enjoying their cozy home and shut the
monster out.
   Throughout the show, Terry Simpson's video images interact
brilliantly with the rest of the spare production (designed
by Jack Barkla and directed by Nicholas Muni), particularly
in the murder scenes, which are swift, frightening and
without gore.
   That's the good part. Unfortunately, Ms. Larsen's grasp of
traditional operatic principles is less sure. The characters
usually are telling each other what happened, rather than
playing out the drama, and a confusing "play within a play"
structure complicates matters unnecessarily. Two characters
in modern dress, the dying "Victor" (Tom Schumacher) and
Walton (Gordon Holleman), remain on the apron of the stage
throughout the opera. Victor, who is perhaps one of those
modern Frankensteins (Oppenheimer? Mengele?), ostensibly is
telling his story. Their facial expressions are captured with
video cameras and magnified on the four video screens set
around the proscenium, rock-concert style.
   Once the final murder is accomplished, the Victor
Frankenstein/Victor worlds merge. This is doubtless the
working out of the philosophical implications of the story,
but it lost me. Also, apart from a splendid concerted
fantasia for all the characters who sing the name "William"
as they lament his murder, few of the vocal parts of the
opera are as memorable as the orchestral/video ones, despite
the efforts of an excellent cast. Ms. Larsen has created an
ingenious mix of the old and the new. It would be fun to see
her pull off both with equal facility. Maybe next time.
   ---
   Ms. Waleson is a free-lance music writer based in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Blueprint for Public Education
   ----
   By John E. Chubb
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   The past decade has been the most ambitious period of
school reform in the nation's history. But evidence of school
improvement -- e.g., in test scores and dropout rates -- is
almost impossible to find.
   How can government work so hard to solve a problem yet
make so little progress? The conclusion Stanford Prof. Terry
Moe and I reached -- after analyzing more than 20,000
students, teachers and principals in a nationwide sample of
500 schools -- is that government has not solved the
education problem, because government is the problem.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The public education system functions naturally and
routinely, despite everyone's best intentions, to burden
schools with excessive bureaucracy, to discourage effective
school organization, and to stifle student achievement.
Efforts to improve schools are therefore doomed unless they
eliminate or sharply curtail the influence of the
institutions that cause the schools' problems in the first
place.
   We consequently propose a new system of public education
that will not be governed directly by politics but will be
controlled indirectly through markets -- through school
competition and parental choice. Markets, we found,
discourage excessive bureaucracy and promote more effective
schools. Because states have primary responsibility for
public education, the best way to establish a "choice" system
is for states to withdraw authority from existing
institutions and vest it directly in the schools, parents and
students -- as follows:
   The state will be responsible for setting criteria that
define what constitutes a "public school" under the new
system. These criteria should be minimal, roughly
corresponding to the criteria many states now use in
accrediting private schools -- graduation requirements,
health and safety requirements, and teacher certification
requirements. Any group or organization that meets these
minimal criteria must then be chartered as a public school
and granted the right to accept students and receive public
money. Existing private and parochial schools (as long as
their religious functions are kept separate) will be
eligible, and their participation should be encouraged,
because they constitute a ready supply of often-effective
schools.
   School districts can continue running their present
schools, but they will have no authority over any of the
others that may be chartered by the state.
   The state will set up a Choice Office in each district,
which, among other things, will maintain a record of all
school-age children and the level of funding -- the
"scholarship" amounts -- associated with each child. This
office will directly compensate schools based on the specific
children they enroll. Public money will flow from funding
sources to the Choice Office and then to schools.
   The state must pay to support its own Choice Office in
each district. Districts may retain as much of their current
governing apparatus as they wish, but they have to pay for it
out of the scholarship revenue of those children who choose
to attend district-run schools.
   As it does now, the state will have the right to specify
how much, or by what formula, each district must contribute
for each child. Our preference is for an equalization
approach that requires wealthier districts to contribute more
per child than poor districts do and that guarantees an
adequate financial foundation to students in all districts.
   Scholarships will also take into account special
educational needs -- arising from economic deprivation,
physical handicaps, and other disadvantages -- that can be
met effectively only through costly specialized programs.
State and federal programs already appropriate public money
to address these problems. These funds should take the form
of add-ons to student scholarships. At-risk students would
then receive bigger scholarships than the others, making them
attractive clients to all schools -- and stimulating the
emergence of new specialty schools.
   Each student will be free to attend any public school in
the state, with the scholarship -- consisting of federal,
state and local contributions -- flowing to the school of
choice. Most students will probably choose schools close to
home, but districts will have no claim on their own
residents. To the extent that tax revenues allow, every
effort will be made to provide transportation for those who
need it, especially the poor and those in rural areas.
   To assist parents and students in choosing among schools,
the state will provide a Parent Information Center within
each local Choice Office. This center will collect
comprehensive information on each school in the district, and
distribute and collect applications. Its liaisons will meet
with parents to help them judge which schools best meet their
children's needs.
   Schools will make their own admissions decisions, subject
only to nondiscrimination requirements. This step is
absolutely crucial. Schools must be able to define their own
missions and build their own programs, and they cannot do
that if their students are thrust on them by outsiders. They
must be free to admit as many or as few students as they
want, based on whatever criteria they think relevant.
   Schools will set their own "tuitions." They may choose to
do so explicitly, say, by publicly announcing the minimum
scholarship they are willing to accept. They may also do it
implicitly by allowing anyone to apply for admission and
simply making selections, knowing in advance what each
applicant's scholarship amount is. In either case, schools
are free to admit students with different-sized scholarships
and to keep the entire scholarship that accompanies each
student they admit. That gives schools incentives to attract
students with special needs, since these children have the
largest scholarships.
   While it is important to give parents and students as much
flexibility as possible, we think it unwise to let them
supplement their scholarships with personal funds. Such
add-ons threaten to produce too many inequalities within the
system, and many citizens would regard them as unfair.
   The application process must guarantee each student a
school, as well as a fair shot at getting into the school he
most wants. We suggest the following. The Parent Information
Center will be responsible for seeing that applications are
submitted by a given date. Schools will then be required to
make their admissions decisions within a set time, and
students who are accepted into more than one school will be
required to select one. Students who are not accepted
anywhere, as well as schools that have yet to attract enough
students, will participate in a second round of applications,
after which unaccepted students (there should be few) will be
assigned to schools by the Choice Office.
   The state must grant each school sole authority to set its
own governing structure. A school may be run entirely by
teachers or even a union; may vest all power in a principal;
may be built around a committee that guarantees
representation to the principal, teachers, parents, students
and community members. Or it may do something completely
different.
   The state will also do nothing to tell the schools how
they must be internally organized. It will not set
requirements for career ladders, advisory committees,
textbook selection, in-service training, preparation time,
homework, or anything else.
   Statewide tenure laws will be eliminated, allowing each
school to decide for itself whether to adopt a tenure policy
and what the specifics will be. This change is essential if
schools are to have the flexibility to build well-functioning
teams of professionals. Some schools may rely solely on pay
and working conditions to attract teachers, while others may
offer tenure as a means of compensating and retaining their
best teachers.
   Teachers will continue to have a right to join unions and
engage in collective bargaining, but the bargaining unit will
be the individual school or, as in the case of the district
government, the organization that runs the school.
   The state will continue to certify teachers, but
requirements will be minimal. Individuals should be certified
to teach if they have a bachelor's degree and if their
personal history reveals no obvious problems. Whether they
are good teachers will be determined in practice, as schools
decide whom to hire, observe their own teachers in action,
and make decisions about merit, promotion and dismissal.
   The state will hold the schools accountable for meeting
the criteria set out in their charters, for adhering to
nondiscrimination laws, and for making available to the
public, through the Parent Information Center, information on
their mission, their staff and course offerings, standardized
test scores (which we would make optional), parent and
student satisfaction, and anything else that would promote
informed educational choice.
   The state will not hold the schools accountable for
student achievement or other dimensions that call for
assessments of the quality of school performance. When it
comes to performance, schools will be held accountable from
below, by parents and students who directly experience their
services and are free to choose.
   These changes have nothing to do with "privatizing" the
nation's schools. The choice system we outline would be a
truly public system -- and a democratic one.
   Nothing in the concept of democracy requires that schools
be subject to direct control by school boards,
superintendents, central offices, departments of education,
and other arms of government. Nor does anything in the
concept of public education require that schools be governed
in this way. There are many paths to democracy and public
education. The path America has long been treading is
exacting a heavy price -- one the nation and its children can
ill afford to bear, and need not.
   ---
   Mr. Chubb, a Brookings Institution fellow, is co-author
with Terry M. Moe of "Politics, Markets, and America's
Schools" (Brookings, $10.95). A related editorial appears
today {see: REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial): Teachers vs. Kids
-- WSJ June 6, 1990}.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Those Still Longing
   For Class Struggle
   Might Try London
   ---
   Even as Communism Fades,
   U.K. `Loony Left' Revels
   In Marx, Mao and Anarchy
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- A specter is haunting Europe -- the specter of
anti-communism. But in the city where Karl Marx crafted "Das
Kapital" at a desk in the British Library, reds are anything
but dead.
   At a radical bookshop in London, Fergus Nicol sorts a
magazine rack crowded with Trotskyist tabloids, a Maoist
monthly and an African quarterly headlined "Arise Ghanaians]"
The shop's hottest periodical, Class War, is gone.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Sells out as soon as it comes in," says Mr. Nicol.
"Delivery's a bit erratic. They're anarchists."
   Turning to a table labeled BookMarx Club, Mr. Nicol offers
an alternative: "Class Struggles in Ancient Greece," the only
remaining selection from the club's spring list. "Judging
from sales," he says, "one would think this was Russia,
1917."
   On the British left, you don't need a bookman to know
which way the wind blows. Fringe groups like the Socialist
Workers Party are recruiting more new members than at any
other time in 20 years. In March, anarchist cells called
Class War and Crowbar stormed police barricades in the worst
riot in London this century, resulting in 133 injuries and
341 arrests. And Britain's Labor Party, home to many
socialists, leads Margaret Thatcher's Tories by about 15
points in opinion polls.
   Prime Minister Thatcher helped spark this revolt by
replacing property taxes with a per-head "poll tax" that
taxes dukes and gravediggers at the same rate. But there's
tradition at work here, too. England has a proud history of
radical and often eccentric dissent, from the anti-royal
Levelers of the 17th century, to the machine-smashing
Luddites of the 19th, to the Cambridge-bred communism of Kim
Philby and other Soviet spies in the 20th.
   Tony Benn, a leading left-winger in Parliament, notes that
the Peasants Revolt of 1381 also was sparked by a poll tax.
"Back then," he says, "it was lords against vassals. Now it's
Thatcher against working people. This is still a feudal
society."
   Pitchfork-wielding peasants might have trouble recognizing
some of today's agitators as kin. At a boarded-up building in
the tough London district of Brixton, the sign on the door
says "Poll Tax Free Zone," but the topic of a meeting inside
is "Anarchy and Sexuality." A young man with a shaved head
and a safety pin through his ear begins, "We know the family
is the main organ of oppression in society. But what can we
do?" A woman in denim and studded leather knows: "Empower
five-year-olds to rebel against their parents."
   In 15 minutes, a hint of anarchy surfaces. A woman
suggests that the 10-person group split into smaller cells,
"because some people are dominating." The man with the shaved
head wants to discuss "concentration camps for homosexuals in
Cuba." A woman snaps back: "Why pick on Cuba? What about the
slave labor camps here?"
   Debate such as this has earned British radicals the
sobriquet "loony left," with the Labor Party its traditional
asylum. In the mid-1980s, London's Labor-run education
authority proposed banning competitive sports, and introduced
math tests requiring students to draw graphs of U.S. arms
spending.
   A few years ago, two nursery-school teachers in a
Labor-run district, on their own initiative, rebuked a boy
for reciting "Baa Baa Black Sheep" on the ground it was
"racially derogatory." More recently, an anti-imperialist
group with broad Labor support, called Liberation, has
championed Libya's Col. Moammar Gadhafi.
   "I like his approach to the struggle for liberty and
justice in the world," says Liberation's general secretary,
Tony Gilbert. Mr. Gilbert recently went to Tripoli to help
decide this year's winner of a $200,000 "Gadhafi Human Rights
Prize." It went to the children of the Palestinian uprising.
   Eager to moderate its image, Labor now is jettisoning many
hard-line policies and expelling leftist zealots from its
ranks. Some disaffected Laborites are turning to extremist
groups.
   At a weekend anti-poll-tax rally spearheaded by the
Militant Tendency, a Trotskyist faction, Mrs. Thatcher hangs
in effigy from a tree in a London shopping district. Standing
on a bench, Lois Austin, a supermarket worker, shouts at a
crowd of about 100: "Why should I pay the same tax as some
yuppie millionaire who parks his Mercedes at the fancy end of
my street?" A rally organizer tosses a match into a trash
bin, and the crowd moves forward to ignite their poll-tax
bills. Someone cuts the prime minister down and tosses her
onto the bonfire, chanting, "Maggie] Maggie] Maggie] Out]
Out] Out]"
   Standing at the edge of the crowd is construction worker
Maurice Carter. He has skulls tatooed on his biceps and a
disdainful smirk on his face. "These groups are just pimples
on the government's arse," he says. "They should burn down
Parliament is what they should do."
   Mr. Carter supports Class War, one of several groups
accused of inciting a riot in March. Demonstrators smashed
windows, looted, and skirmished with police to protest the
poll tax, which is also known as the community charge. Class
War welcomed the notoriety. According to its paper, "A
community charge means running down a street with a brick in
your hand and a pig in your sights]"
   Other tactics include smashing Jaguars with sledgehammers
-- "Bash the Rich]" being a favorite slogan -- and mocking
the royal family. When the Duchess of York recently gave
birth to her second child, Class War noted with "deep regret"
the arrival of "another royal parasite."
   Recent events from Berlin to Bucharest have led to curious
contortions on the left. Most groups are disclaiming any
association with the East bloc. The Socialist Workers Party
claims the late East bloc regimes in fact represented "state
capitalism." The Militant says they were Stalinist. "We
predicted all along that the workers would rise up against
bureaucratic tyranny," says Militant spokesman Ken Smith. As
for those workers' new enthusiasm for capitalism, he adds:
"Working-class consciousness doesn't develop in a straight
line. Before long, they'll realize they've been conned, just
like workers in Britain."
   It's not clear, though, that the British masses are about
to throw off their chains. At a packed meeting of the
Socialist Workers Party at the Birdcage Pub in London's
gritty East End, the audience cheers loudly when a speaker
calls the Tories "greedy, naked capitalists." But a look at
the meeting's attendance list suggests more students than
proletarians.
   The bar downstairs, meanwhile, is filled with men shooting
pool and throwing darts. "It's the same every month," says
Colin Cannon, a retired clerical worker. "Socialists shouting
upstairs, and workers down here drinking beer."
   It's enough to make one committed Communist roll over in
his grave. At a Victorian cemetery in north London, where
Karl Marx was buried in 1883, an imposing bust of the German
philosopher rises above a tomb whose inscription reads:
"Workers of All Lands Unite."
   As of June 1, workers have had to pony up a pound to pay
their respects. Jean Pateman, of Friends of Highgate
Cemetery, a group of women who tend the graveyard, says the
fee will help keep undesirables out of the cemetery, or, as
she puts it, the "people in running shorts who swill lager
and shout vulgarities."
   Events in Eastern Europe haven't kept pilgrims away from
the grave, with the possible exception of one. For four
years, the most frequent visitor was an alley cat --
ginger-colored, of course -- whose deceased owner had been a
devoted Marxist. The women at the cemetery took to feeding
the cat, naming him Engels.
   Earlier this year, amid the tumult in Eastern Europe,
Engels vanished. Hildegard Kenwrick-Cox, who often fed him,
has a theory as to why. "Cats are smarter than people," she
says. "They know when to give up on a lost cause."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Real Artists Often Need Handouts
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<LP>
   Author Bill Kauffman seems to subscribe to the sinister
notion that only by enduring self-imposed sentences of
starvation and denial can artists find artistic truth ("Real
Artists Don't Take Handouts," editorial page, May 14).
   No, Faulkner, Whitman and Thoreau never received
government support for their works. But how many would-be
artists failed to grow into the girth of their potential
because their as-yet-developed talents could not sustain them
through their early years? How many more Faulkners, Whitmans
and Thoreaus might there have been had the government
provided small doses of financial encouragement to those with
a gleam of promise?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As for those who have received government support --
authors such as Alice Walker, John Irving, Gloria Naylor and
Raymond Carver -- certainly they have returned our investment
in them, both in the tax revenues generated by their works
and, more important, through the enriching quality of their
prose.
   This is not to suggest that without fellowships from the
National Endowment for the Arts such literary notables would
never have earned their place in American letters. Yet,
listen to the words of playwright Alfred Uhry who said that
"Driving Miss Daisy" would never have gotten out of the
garage if not for Endowment help. Or from Oscar Hijuelos,
this year's Pulitzer recipient for fiction, who claimed that
his Endowment fellowship was as important to him in 1985 as
the Pulitzer is today. In fact, all four Pulitzer recipients
in the arts this year, as well as the recipients of the
National Book Award for Fiction and the National Book Critics
Circle Award for Poetry, received Endowment grants in one way
or another.
   John E. Frohnmayer
   Chairman
   National Endowment for the Arts
   Washington
   ---
   I always find it either naive or stupid (or both) when the
Brahmins of American literature, Thoreau, Hawthorne and
Emerson, are trotted out to bash those who accept grants.
Working stiffs they weren't. Emerson (as quoted by Mr.
Kauffman) advising writers to learn writing in the streets,
not college, may make a figurative point, but such counsel
coming from one of the well-off and well-educated is a bit
much. And to bring in poor Melville] After the economic
debacles of "Moby Dick" and "The Confidence Man," Melville
had to work for 20 years at a government agency, the Custom
Office (a political patronage job). Perhaps if there had been
a direct government grant to get back then, he would have had
the wherewithal to publish another masterpiece in his
lifetime (it would have been "Billy Budd"), the sort of work
Mr. Kauffman, poor fellow, searches for in vain.
   William O'Rourke
   Department of English
   University of Notre Dame
   Notre Dame, Ind.
   ---
   Mr. Kauffman made some good points. In the process,
however, he seemed to suggest that writers ought to be poor.
   There is no dishonor in poverty, but being poor doesn't
help you write. When writers are broke, they get jobs.
Subsequently they write less or stop writing altogether. Even
when they land writing jobs, writers can rarely write about
what they regard as vital.
   Marc Hequet
   President, Twin Cities Local National Writers Union
   St. Paul, Minn.
   ---
   Vincent van Gogh was supported by grants from his brother;
one of his paintings just sold for $82.5 million. Perhaps Mr.
Kauffman would classify van Gogh as a mediocre artist because
he was subsidized. Much great art was the result of some type
of grant. The Sistine Chapel was commissioned by the Catholic
Church; Mozart was supported by kings.
   In our time, the Guggenheim Foundation (to name only one)
has been responsible for 44 National Book Awards, 39 Nobel
Prizes and 90 Pulitzers. Among them were Katherine Anne
Porter, Alfred Kazin, John Kenneth Galbraith, Stephen Vincent
Benet, Conrad Aiken, Samuel Barber, Arthur Schlesinger Jr.
and Virgil Thomson. Benet's wife wrote that if it hadn't been
for the foundation grant in 1925, he never would have written
the poem "John Brown's Body," for which he won the Pulitzer
Prize.
   Iris Forrest
   Florida Freelance Writers Association
   Sarasota, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   Business
   Schools Get
   Bad Grades
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Business schools have some new critics: themselves.
   After two years of study, a top-level panel of business
school deans and others concludes that many M.B.A.s today are
merely number-crunchers, ill-prepared to manage in the
rapidly changing global marketplace.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Warning that business schools risk "professional
irrelevance," the report urges sweeping changes, including a
greater practical focus for teaching and research, more
emphasis on managerial experience in selecting faculty and
tougher prerequisites for student admission.
   The report also suggests "new assessment devices" to test
applicants on leadership potential as well as mathematical
and verbal skills. One possible result of the study is a
major overhaul of the Graduate Management Admission Test, the
aptitude test that a record 290,000 business school aspirants
registered to take this past academic year. The study was
commissioned by the group that sponsors the test.
   "There is a need for a fundamental rethinking of graduate
management education," the report says. Given the increasing
demographic diversity of the workplace, fast-changing
technologies and the "internationalization" of business, the
report adds, "simply preparing students to solve problems in
traditional ways is insufficient."
   Business schools generally agree with the report's
suggestions, and some even say it didn't go far enough. But
they caution that, given current high enrollments and the
healthy demand for M.B.A.s, quick change at most business
schools is unlikely.
   Many business leaders and commentators have slammed
business schools in recent years for contributing to
America's economic woes, charging that M.B.A.s aren't
committed to anything but lofty salaries and titles. Many
business schools have responded by pouring more energy and
money into public relations. They have done this partly to
raise money, but also to boost their visibility in the
growing number of nationally published magazine surveys,
which schools have found can greatly influence student
applications.
   Business schools must be persuaded that more substantive
changes are needed, the report's authors say. "If we continue
to squabble and worry about who's No. 5 and who's No. 15, we
risk behaving in ways that confirm what our critics have said
about us -- that we're concerned only about ourselves and
with creating a narrow, materialistic perspective about
business," says John W. Rosenblum, dean of the University of
Virginia's Darden School of Business and co-chairman of the
21-member study panel.
   The Graduate Management Admission Council, the Los Angeles
research organization that sponsors the GMAT exam, began
circulating the report among the nation's business schools
last week.
   The report doesn't list specific courses or topics that
schools should emphasize. But it recommends that each
institution conduct an "honest self-assessment" of its
strengths and resist the temptation to add a jumble of new
courses, as many have done. "More electives on information
systems or international business are not the answer," the
report says. "Neither are more foreign student exchanges or
Outward Bound-type programs."
   Most critical, the report says, are courses that stress
"managerial relevance." Contending that teaching and research
on many campuses today suffer from "pedantic sterility," the
report says business school faculty need to spend more time
within companies observing "business practices in action." It
suggests more collaborations between schools and
corporations, and even adjusting faculty selection standards
to value managerial experience among instructors, not just
scholarly credentials.
   "We need to create a more real world environment," says
H.J. Zoffer, dean of the University of Pittsburgh's Katz
School of Business and a panel member. With the divisions
between regular and clinical faculty at many business schools
now, he says, "either you've got a practitioner who knows
nothing about scholarship or an egghead who knows nothing
about practice. Those worlds have got to begin merging."
   Business schools could also become more effective if they
focused their offerings and considered joining forces with
other institutions, the report says. Many schools on their
own, it notes, are attempting to squeeze more into their
M.B.A. curricula while also training doctoral students and
running growing executive education programs. To lessen the
burden and allow more time to cover advanced topics, the
report says schools should require that entering M.B.A.s know
certain material such as basic economic theory and
fundamental accounting principles before they start.
   Schools should also screen entering students more
carefully for such personal qualities as intellectual
curiosity, managerial aptitude, self-awareness, and "concern
for the consequences of one's actions upon others," the
report says. "While these skills can be enhanced in graduate
schools of management, our schools cannot bear the entire
load of developing them."
   The report acknowledges that many of the changes it
proposes won't be easy to swallow. For instance, loosening
faculty appointment guidelines will challenge entrenched
practices at many institutions. And, say officials at several
schools not represented on the study panel, broad change is
unlikely so long as interest in business schools remains
strong.
   "Anytime you have large numbers of students, you become
fairly complacent," says Jack R. Borsting, dean of the
University of Southern California business school. Mr.
Borsting says a review of his school's programs under way for
the past year is in line with many of the themes raised in
the report, but he laments that the report isn't strong
enough to guarantee change elsewhere. "I think the report
should have stronger language," he says. "People can just
pass over this."
   At the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, Jerry
Wind, a professor of marketing who is heading a review of
Wharton's curriculum, agrees that "M.B.A. education has to be
completely reconsidered." But he scoffed at the report's
suggestion that business schools must join forces to ensure
students a complete menu of offerings. "It's absurd. We will
not even consider it."
   Mr. Wind adds that many business school faculty are likely
to resist the call for shifting their research to more
"relevant" topics. "Whether they are relevant or not is not
very important to them," he says. He also disagreed with
adding prerequisite business courses for admission. "You may
discourage people from the humanities and sciences from
pursuing an M.B.A.," Mr. Wind says. "That would be terrible."
   The Graduate Management Admission Council plans a series
of meetings and other efforts to encourage discussion of the
report and adoption of its proposals. The council is also
beginning a thorough study of the three-hour GMAT exam, which
hasn't undergone a complete revision since its debut in 1956.
William Broesamle, the council's president, says that
significant change in the test might be five to 10 years
away, but that modification is likely.
   One change already under consideration, he says, would be
simply adding new written questions to probe "social
interaction" and leadership potential. Another, he adds,
could be transferring the test to a computer format, to gauge
students through their responses to simulated business
situations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   New Study Strengthens Suspected Link
   Between Colon Cancer, Saturated Fat
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A new study bolstered the suspected link between colon
cancer and the saturated fat in meats and dairy products.
   The study found that Chinese who developed colon or rectal
cancer had consumed higher amounts of saturated animal fat
than Chinese of comparable age who didn't have the cancer.
The link was strongest among Chinese who had migrated to the
U.S. or Canada and had begun to adopt a Western diet. But it
also was evident among Chinese living in two cities in China.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previous studies, mostly involving Caucasians, have
implicated high-fat diets in colon and rectal cancer. The new
study narrows the link to saturated fats, particularly the
saturated fats in meat and dairy products.
   The new study, a collaboration of researchers in China,
the U.S. and Canada, was undertaken to find out why the rate
of colon and rectal cancer among Chinese Americans is four to
seven times higher than it is among the population in China.
A related mystery is why the rate is markedly higher among
Chinese American men than among Chinese American women.
   To find out, research teams in Los Angeles, San Francisco
and Vancouver, British Columbia, did a controlled study among
Chinese Americans while a Chinese research team did an
identical study among residents of the cities of Hangzhou and
Ningbo in eastern China. On both continents the researchers
took dietary and social histories of patients with colon or
rectal cancer and compared them with similar histories of
cancer-free volunteers who were of the same age and lived in
the same area as the cancer patients.
   Statistical analyses "supported the conclusion that
saturated fat was the most important dietary correlate of
colorectal cancer risk," Alice S. Whittemore and her Chinese,
Canadian and American colleagues reported in this week's
issue of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute. Ms.
Whittemore is a biomathematician at Stanford University
medical school in Stanford, Calif.
   Animal fats such as butter and the fat on beef and pork
are relatively high in saturated fat, which makes them solid
at room temperature. Vegetable fats, like soybean and corn
oils, are relatively low in saturated fat and are usually
liquid at room temperature.
   On both continents, the more calories of saturated fat a
person consumed the more likely he or she was to have colon
or rectal cancer. No such link could be found for unsaturated
fats, proteins or carbohydrates, the researchers reported.
   But the link of colon cancer with saturated fat was most
striking among Chinese Americans. A difference of 100
calories of saturated fat in the daily diet almost doubled
the risk of colon cancer for Chinese Americans, whereas it
raised the risk for Chinese in China by 20% or less. This is
about the amount of saturated fat contained in 12 ounces of
sirloin steak, two ounces of hamburger meat or two ounces of
American cheese.
   This last finding prompted the researchers to check the
sources of saturated fats in the diets on both continents. In
the U.S. and Canada, the Chinese immigrants got 44% of their
saturated fat from meats and 19% from dairy products with the
rest coming from cooking fats. In China, only 30% of the
saturated fat calories came from meats and only 7% from dairy
products. "Thus, the stronger association {with cancer} for
saturated fat noted in North America could reflect the
greater contributions from meat and dairy products to diet on
this continent," the scientists said.
   The colon cancer risk increased the longer a person had
lived in North America. Among those who had immigrated to
North America, the men had lived in the U.S. or Canada four
to 10 years longer than the Chinese women who had immigrated.
This longer exposure to Westernized diets may explain why the
colon cancer rate is higher among Chinese American men than
among Chinese American women, the scientists suggested.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Preserving Appalachia's Mountain Music
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Wind Cave, Ky. -- Jim Webb lugs his guitar case down a
steep bank past wooden shacks and chicken coops, remnants of
a century-old homestead where generations have raised tobacco
and cattle.
   After searching for days, Mr. Webb has learned from
neighbors that this obscure spot is home to Elbert McQueen, a
wiry fiddle player. Most days, the 63-year-old Mr. McQueen
tends to the farm, feeding chickens and shooing steers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But a steady rain offers a good excuse to go indoors and
play some mountain music with his guest. "A lot of my tunes
are leaving me," he laments. He coaxes a wail from an antique
fiddle.
   Old timers like Mr. McQueen are disappearing fast. And so
is their music. Armed with a banjo, guitar and tape recorder,
Mr. Webb is a modern day Chaucer. But rather than retelling
what he hears, he plays it to schoolchildren and anyone else
who will listen. His mission: to capture the native tunes of
Appalachia, before they recede into the hills never to be
heard again.
   "It's gotten to the point where the media age has
decimated this sort of culture," says Mr. Webb, whose few
gray hairs offer the only hint that he's 42. "Most people
don't think it's important because music doesn't help pay the
bills."
   The son of a mechanic and a writer, Mr. Webb's interest in
bluegrass music began when he got his first guitar at age 17.
Leaving his boyhood home in the Maryland suburbs of
Washington, D.C., he enrolled in Bellarmine College in
Louisville, Ky.
   Since then, he's played bluegrass at bars and folk
festivals. To support himself, he's mowed grass in
graveyards, driven cabs and built furniture. "There's not a
neat little slot for people like me to fit into," the
boyish-faced Mr. Webb says.
   But pursuing his own slot has meant a lean lifestyle for
him and his wife, Stephanie, and infant son, Johnson. This
year, they exist on a $6,000 grant from the Kentucky Arts
Council. He expects to make a little money from an organic
vegetable garden he planted this spring.
   "The income is pretty limited, but it's unpretentious and
it's real," says Mr. Webb.
   So's the music he is trying to preserve. The songs reflect
the daily struggles of mountain people, focusing on such
subjects as farming, hunting, love affairs and death. They
were passed down from fathers to sons and mothers to
daughters, and played every time neighbors gathered. But now
it's often only the old folks who know the words.
   "An old guy missing most of his teeth and playing a banjo
isn't a viable product," says Jeff Place, folklife archivist
at the Smithsonian Institution. "The music industry is
looking for a product to sell."
   Though some suggest interest in mountain music is up, Mr.
Webb is hard pressed to find evidence of a sweeping revival.
As he drives through the Kentucky hills, he grumbles that
television has robbed a generation of its past. Satellite
dishes bring HBO and MTV into tiny wooden shacks where many
families still live. "That's what caused all the damage," he
says.
   With annual art-council grants, Mr. Webb has traveled to
various schools in the state to teach music. This spring he
visited Tyner Elementary School, where he's known simply as
"the music man."
   Especially amusing are the lyrics to a few of his ditties.
Singing "Four Wet Pigs," Mr. Webb squeals: "Cut 'em into hot
dogs, slice 'em into ham, chop 'em into pork chops, squeeze
them into Spam."
   But it's tough to get youngsters hooked on some older
tunes, like "Peg and Awl," a story of a cobbler who was
replaced by assembly line. "Do you know what a cobbler is?"
he asks the class. "Is it a chicken?" replies a boy in the
front row. "No that's a gobbler," Mr. Webb says.
   The class yawns and fidgets as he sings the lonesome tune.
So he tries to appease them by taking their requests for
other songs. Showing their tender age, the group of fourth
graders chants: "Play some Elvis."
   Another obstacle in preserving the music is finding the
musicians. Many live in towns never marked on any map. And
there are few meeting places left where musicians gather.
"People used to play in their homes. That gave them a sense
of community. They just don't do it much anymore," says Mr.
Webb.
   So he's a bit of a sleuth, tracking down leads, going
door-to-door. His searches always provide a history lesson on
Appalachia, as well as its music. Mr. McQueen tells Mr. Webb
about the time Bill Monroe, considered the father of
bluegrass, visited the hollow.
   Mr. Webb believes storytelling is key to learning the
roots of mountain music. He asks for details on Mr. McQueen's
lifetime on the farm. Until a few years ago, he learns, the
McQueens used a team of mules to plow. "We had to scratch our
toenails off to keep the bills paid," he says. "It's play now
because I have a tractor."
   The two men sit in wooden chairs, playing tunes like
"Billy and the Low Ground."
   Sometimes he meets people who are trying to break into the
music business. One day, he stops at Dan and Nora Lee
Caldwell's house in rural Jackson County. Mr. Caldwell, an
unemployed truck driver, tells Mr. Webb about his plans to
build a recording studio in the vacant field next to their
house.
   They discuss the musicians who've influenced them, legends
like the Carter family and the Stanley Brothers. "You wanna
pick a couple tunes?" Mr. Webb asks, itching to get started.
He tunes his 1953 Martin guitar, bought secondhand for $160.
   Later that night, Mr. Webb visits Samuel T. Evans, a
retired farmer and banjo player in nearby Tyner, Ky. The
75-year-old Mr. Evans teaches him the claw hammer style, a
technique in which only the thumb strikes the strings.
   Mr. Webb watches Mr. Evans's leathery hands and calloused
fingertips dance across the banjo's strings as he plays. He
hands the banjo to Mr. Webb, so he can try the technique.
"You're good at that," says Mr. Evans, who has played the
banjo for 60 years.
   The evening slips away as the two musicians stomp their
feet in time to the music. Soon the stomping stops. Mr. Webb
says his goodbyes and slips out the door. A cool rain hits
his face. Smiling, he says, "This puts me at peace."
   ---
   Ms. Swasy writes on Appalachia from the Journal's
Pittsburgh bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Mycogen Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   MYCO
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MYCOGEN Corp., San Diego, announced a public offering of
2.5 million common shares at $17.75 each, boosting its common
shares outstanding to 11,228,655. Mycogen said Morgan Stanley
&amp; Co. will lead the underwriters. The maker of biological
pesticides said proceeds will be used for general corporate
purposes and to support research, development, manufacturing
and marketing of its biopesticide products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Natec Resources Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NATC
</CO>
<LP>
   NATEC RESOURCES Inc. (Houston) -- Ben R. Stuart was
elected to the board of this acid rain pollution control
concern, bringing the board total to seven. Mr. Stuart, vice
president, operations, for Dresser Industries Inc., succeeds
Arthur S. Bowes Jr., who didn't seek re-election. Dresser
Industries is a Dallas energy services concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Boise Cascade Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   BCC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOISE CASCADE Corp., Boise, Idaho, announced a public
offering of $125 million of 9.85% notes due in 2002. The
offering was largely sold at the time of pricing yesterday,
the company said. The forest products company said the
proceeds will go toward repayment of short-term debt and
general corporate purposes. The underwriters are First Boston
Corp., Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., Lazard Freres &amp; Co. and Salomon
Brothers Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Du Pont Develops
   Substitutes for Halon
   Fire Extinguishants
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DD
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- Du Pont Co. said it developed two
prospective substitutes for Halon fire extinguishants that
don't cause depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer.
   Based on preliminary tests over the past year, the new
bromine-free agents cause "zero to extremely low" ozone
depletion, said Donald P. Dunn, a Du Pont marketing manager.
Halons, which can do severe damage, are being phased out by
international agreements that call for a production freeze by
1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Du Pont, a chemicals and energy company, currently sells
about $8 million to $10 million a year of fire
extinguishants. The world-wide market is about $80 million.
Du Pont's new products could be used in aircraft, ships,
computer rooms, museums, hospitals and petroleum-production
facilities, Mr. Dunn said.
   Du Pont has invested more than $170 million on research
into alternatives to chlorofluorocarbons and Halons, which
are both substances widely blamed for damaging the ozone
layer. Du Pont is concentrating on substitutes made up of
hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, and hydrochlorofluorocarbons, or
HCFCs.
   By excluding the bromine compound, the active agent in
Halon, Du Pont's new products are safer for the environment,
Mr. Dunn said. But he added that they would be two to three
times more expensive, and would require using more volume for
comparable effectiveness.
   Du Pont's products will be produced commercially at its
Maitland, Ontario, facility and in small quantities at a
pilot facility in Deepwater, N.J.
   Approval of the products are subject to separate
applications and standards testing by the U.S. Army, Air
Force and Navy, as well as the National Fire Protection
Association. Mr. Dunn said the company expects to market the
products commercially beginning in 1995.
   Du Pont's main competitors in manufacturing fire
extinguishants are Imperial Chemical Industries PLC in
Britain and Atochem in France as well as Great Lakes Chemical
Co. and several smaller companies in the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Is Mixed on Technical Factors;
   Traders Are Mulling Politics, Economy
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar was mixed as the market concerned
itself primarily with the potential impact of future
political and economic developments.
   The dollar was slightly higher against the yen and lower
against the mark and the pound in trading inspired mainly by
technical considerations amid a dearth of market-moving news,
participants said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The market is waiting for next week's release of May U.S.
inflation indicators, for an outcome to negotiations on
Canada's constitutional deadlock and for news on progress of
U.S.-Soviet talks on the military status of a unified
Germany.
   In particular, the dollar's failure to reach 1.7000 marks
during European trading led to selling of the U.S. currency
below 1.6900 marks, said Charles Cossentino, a vice president
at Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank in New York.
   Mr. Cossentino and others said their outlook for the
dollar against the mark remains bullish, with nervousness
over the domestic economic consequences of unification again
leading the list of factors weighing on the West German
currency.
   Traders are seeking signs of a U.S.-Soviet compromise on
the military status of a unified Germany, but the influence
of that factor has waned on the perception that any deal will
be a long time coming and isn't likely to delay unification.
   Sterling was broadly higher as participants went to
currencies backed by high interest rates amid a lack of news
to move other exchange-rates aggressively, traders said. In
late afternoon New York trading, the pound was at $1.6870, up
from $1.6810 late Monday.
   The U.S. currency rose slightly against its Canadian
counterpart, as market nervousness over the outcome of
negotiations on Quebec's constitutional status negated the
potentially positive factor of high Canadian interest rates,
participants said.
   Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and 10 provincial
premiers are conducting talks in a last-ditch attempt to
forge a compromise on the constitutional amendment giving
French-speaking Quebec status as a "distinct society" within
Canada. All 10 provinces must ratify the measure by a
deadline of June 23 for it to become law. Two provinces are
still opposed and leaders are pessimistic about the chances
for a compromise.
   Quebec has threatened to secede from Canada if the measure
isn't passed.
   In late afternoon New York trading, the dollar was at
1.6850 marks, down from 1.6855 marks late Monday, and at
152.45 yen, up from 152.40.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was quoted at 152.55 yen
soon after opening at 152.45 yen; it closed at 152.43 yen in
Tokyo on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at
about 1.6835 marks, down from Tuesday's Tokyo close of
1.6884.
   Participants said the market is beginning to look beyond
the interest-rate implications of the current attempt to
reduce the huge U.S. budget deficit, focusing instead on the
economic benefits that a lower government debt could bring.
   Traders said the shift in focus is creating a more
positive view of the short-term effects of the budget
"summit" between the U.S. administration and Congress. During
past weeks, many in the market said they expect the dollar to
fall on expectations of lower interest rates if a deal is
reached to reduce the budget deficit.
   Meetings on the budget deficit in Washington are scheduled
to resume today after a holiday break for Congress last week.
   Nonetheless, Congress is expected to approve an increase
in the Treasury's $3.12 trillion debt limit sometime in the
next few months, observers said.
   Foreign-exchange dealers said they expect greater market
attention on the budget talks in coming weeks because of a
growing awareness of the economic damage that unrestrained
growth in the deficit could cause.
   In Europe, the dollar was modestly weaker, although the
day's action was largely defined by technical dealings and
featured dollar moves within previously defined trading
bands. In Tokyo, the dollar drifted lower in quiet dealings.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $359.80 an ounce, up $1.20. Estimated
volume was a light 2.5 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted at $359.50 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tomkins Agrees
   To Buy Philips
   Industries Inc.
   ---
   London Company Is to Pay
   $550 Million After LBO
   By Merrill Lynch Failed
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter and Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   PHL TOMKY MER
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Britain's Tomkins PLC agreed in principle to acquire
Philips Industries Inc. of Dayton, Ohio, for $18.50 a share,
or $550 million.
   The acquisition accord ends months of debate on the
Philips board over the company's course, following the
collapse earlier this year of a leveraged buy-out by Merrill
Lynch Capital Partners Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There was a healthy discussion by the board whether to
stay independent, do an LBO or sell to an industrial
company," Gregory Hutchings, Tomkins's chief executive
officer, said in London. In Dayton, Jesse Philips, the
company's 75-year-old founder and retired chairman, said the
board voted unanimously to accept the Tomkins offer because
it represented the "best value" for shareholders.
   Last September, Merrill Lynch offered $25.50 a share for
Philips, a maker of windows, bathtubs, air-moving equipment
and other products, but was unable to line up financing for
the buy-out, even after Philips agreed to reduce the price to
$24 a share. Further discussions failed to produce an
alternative transaction. Talks were initiated with Tomkins
soon after the Merrill Lynch buy-out collapsed last January,
according to individuals involved in the negotiations.
   The proposed price for Philips stock, though significantly
lower than the initial $25.50-a-share buy-out proposal, is a
premium of 32% above Monday's closing price of $14 a share in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Yesterday,
Philips stock surged $3.25 to close at $17.25 on volume of
2,483,800 shares.
   For London-based Tomkins, which already makes lawnmowers,
bicycles and handguns in the U.S. as well as other metal
products in Britain, the acquisition would be the biggest yet
in a program to expand in the U.S. Tomkins was attracted to
Philips because it operates basic businesses involving
relatively low-risk technology, said Richard G.G. Carr,
president of Tomkins Corp., the U.S. subsidiary of Tomkins
PLC.
   In 1987, Tomkins bought Smith &amp; Wesson Corp., the gun
maker, for $112.5 million. The following year it bought
Murray Ohio Manufacturing Corp., a maker of lawnmowers and
bicycles, for $224 million.
   Acquisition of Philips would give Tomkins 66% of its
earnings from U.S. sources, according to Mr. Hutchings, up
from 45% currently. "Philips would be very similar to our
other U.S. acquisitions -- a company with low-risk, technical
products and good cash flow," he said.
   Tim Harris, an analyst with Nomura Research Institute in
London, predicted that Philips would add significantly to
Tomkins's already positive future earnings outlook.
   Tomkins stock, though, slipped 14 pence (23.5 cents) to
288 pence in late trading in London, reflecting concern over
the 58% dilution in the company's shares that would result
from the #320 million ($537.6 million) rights offering to
finance the acquisition. Tomkins conditioned its buy-out
offer on a successful underwriting of the rights offering.
   If a definitive agreement hasn't been executed by the
close of business June 20, the agreement in principle will
lapse, the companies said. And Philips is permitted to
discuss a merger with any other party that indicates an
interest prior to completion of the Tomkins transaction.
   Philips was very successful until recently, acquiring
companies in related industries and showing consistent profit
gains by improving operations of the new businesses. However,
the company reported a net loss of $14.6 million, or 51 cents
a share, for the fiscal year ended March 31 because of
after-tax charges totaling $51.3 million related to planned
disposition of three units and costs of the failed Merrill
Lynch buy-out. Sales were $927.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Painewebber Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PWJ
</CO>
<LP>
   PAINEWEBBER GROUP Inc. (New York) -- Robert S. McKinney
was named executive vice president and chief information
officer at PaineWebber Inc., a unit of this securities firm.
Mr. McKinney previously was managing director of systems at
Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., the New York-based investment bank
unit of General Electric Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Midway Airlines' Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDW
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Midway Airlines said its May traffic rose 36%
to 400.2 million revenue passenger miles from 294.7 million
miles a year earlier. A revenue passenger mile is one paying
passenger flown one mile.
   The carrier's May load factor, or the number of available
seats occupied, fell to 55.7% from 56.9%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first five months of this year, Midway's traffic
rose 51% to 2.09 billion revenue passenger miles from 1.39
billion miles a year earlier. The load factor rose to 60%
from 55.9%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Blithely Dismissing
   The New and Untested
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   As a recently retired member of the National Council on
the Arts who has participated in council meetings with Helen
Frankenthaler, I am greatly disturbed by your May 21
editorial "Controversy vs. Quality" and by your reference to
Ms. Frankenthaler's New York Times op-ed piece last July.
   Ms. Frankenthaler as an artist speaks for herself. Her
comments about the quality of the grants and panels have been
intemperate and insidious at a moment when the National
Endowment for the Arts is under siege. She has been quoted in
a Times magazine article as saying, "Sometimes I wish I had
more people to relate to and refer to and talk to, but there
are very few artists whose work I want to see. . . ." Her
interest in young artists, contemporary artists, contemporary
issues, in my opinion and observation, is limited at best.
This to the point of having said at one council meeting words
to the effect that, who can be bothered to visit all those
galleries in SoHo, as a way of dismissing the new, the young,
the untested. To those with an interest in the world of the
visual arts it is analogous to an academician stating he
could not be bothered to visit the Montparnasse of 1908 or
the Montmartre of 1925.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The fellowship grants and attendant peer panel review
system at the NEA have been supportive and courageous. They
have funded the difficult where others feared to tread. The
peer panel review system has guaranteed connoisseurship and
competence and it has responded in a meaningful and
supportive way to artists the length and breadth of the
nation.
   Of course there will be both mistakes and controversy. One
must sympathize with those who are deeply offended by certain
works of art. Nonetheless, to cite these isolated examples
and to mix in some glib perjoratives such as "fashion" and
"chic" to besmirch one of the few support systems our
government has to assist the individual artist is unfortunate
in the extreme. It gives ammunition to those who wish to
extinguish, cut back or change the way the NEA goes about its
business of assisting artists and art institutions, which it
has done well and effectively on very little of the
taxpayer's money. Its budget is about $175 million a year,
not even the cost of a single, minor-league S&amp;L bailout.
   Raymond J. Learsy
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chattem Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHTT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHATTEM Inc. (Chattanooga, Tenn.) -- Zan Guerry, formerly
executive vice president and chief operating officer of this
chemicals and consumer products maker, was named chairman,
president and chief executive officer. The 41-year-old Mr.
Guerry succeeds his father, Alex Guerry Jr., who died last
month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Boston Technology Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BSTN
</CO>
<LP>
   BOSTON TECHNOLOGY Inc. (Cambridge, Mass.) -- Joseph E.
Norberg, chief financial officer and treasurer of Hill,
Holiday, Connors, Cosmopulos Inc., a Boston advertising
agency, was named a director of this telephone equipment
concern, succeeding Ronald J. Miller, former counsel to the
company and a director for 3 1/2 years, whose resignation
from the board the company said was mutually agreed upon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Toys "R" Us Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TOY
</CO>
<LP>
   TOYS "R" US Inc. (Paramus, N.J.) -- Debra Hyman was named
to the new position of vice president, divisional merchandise
manager of infants, sleepwear and accessories of the Kids "R"
Us unit of this toy retailer. Ms. Hyman was previously girls
buyer for the unit, which sells clothing for children.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Is Lower as Profit-Taking Hurts
   Computer Stocks; Microsoft Tumbles 3 5/8
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investors in over-the-counter stocks took profits, pushing
the Nasdaq Composite Index down 1 to 464.61 in heavy trading.
   Volume rose to 173.5 million from 142.2 million Monday, as
declining shares overtook advancing stocks, 1,053 to 968.
Financial and other interest-sensitive issues remained
strong, while technology and industrial stocks weakened.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The next four or five days could be a little bit choppy,"
cautioned Peter Da Puzzo, co-head of world-wide equities for
Shearson Lehman Hutton. "Frankly," he added, the stocks "got
a little bit ahead of themselves. I would think normal
profittaking would occur and the market will catch its
breath."
   Buoyed by yesterday's rally, the OTC market opened higher
but quickly faded as large investors sold stocks and
retreated to the sidelines, said Peter Coolidge, senior OTC
trader at Kidder Peabody. However, small investors bought
shares throughout the day at Robinson Humphrey in Atlanta,
according to Robert King, head of OTC trading there.
   Shearson's Mr. Da Puzzo and Kidder's Mr. Coolidge said
they expect the market's advance to slow as summer nears.
However, Mr. Da Puzzo said that he doesn't expect the market
to retreat too far or for too long because investors who
think they missed the rally will step in to take advantage of
sliding prices.
   Far more pessimistic is Michael Murphy, editor of the
Overpriced Stock Service, San Francisco. Mr. Murphy said in
an interview that on May 11 he advised his clients to put all
their investments into cash and get out of the stock market
entirely.
   "To me, this whole market is a bet that a bunch of
politicians are willing to raise taxes and cut spending in an
election year," Mr. Murphy said. "I think it's a terrible
bet," he said, adding that he expects the Dow Jones
Industrial Average to drop to 2,550 "fairly quickly." That
would be a 13% drop from yesterday's close of 2925.
   Mr. Murphy, who said he doesn't expect the Federal Reserve
to lower interest rates, sees a number of signs that the
economy is weakening and believes it's too risky to expect
earnings to increase. He said the bigger-profits scenario is
based largely on stronger sales in Europe in the fourth
quarter.
   However, Mr. Murphy says smaller stocks aren't as
overvalued as larger stocks, adding that he's selling short
only a few OTC stocks while selling short a number of large,
listed issues. Short sellers borrow shares and sell them,
hoping to profit by replacing them later at lower prices.
   Among yesterday's most active issues were three new public
offerings. Shares of Fleer, a Philadelphia maker of baseball
cards and Dubble Bubble bubble gum, closed at 20 1/4 on 2.1
million shares. The initial public offering of 1.7 million
common shares was priced at $15 a share Monday and opened
yesterday at 18.
   K-Swiss closed at 22 1/2, up 5, on 1.6 million shares
after an initial public offering at $17.50 for each of 1.45
million common shares; K-Swiss makes athletic shoes.
   Gensia Pharmaceuticals closed at 11 1/8, above its initial
offering price of $11 a share. Gensia is a San Diego
developer of pharmaceutical products.
   Profit-taking hurt computer-related issues. Apple Computer
dropped 1 1/4 to 39 1/2; Adobe Systems fell 1 to 32 1/4;
Intel lost 1 3/8 to 47 1/8, and Microsoft tumbled 3 5/8 to 73
3/8.
   Spectrum Information Technologies added 5/8 to 2 15/16
after the Dallas technology concern said its Spectrum
Cellular unit is in a licensing pact with a maker of laptop
computers, Toshiba America Information Systems, to use
Spectrum's newest generation of cellular-landline modem
technology.
   Duty Free International rose 1 1/4 to 31 3/4 on more than
seven times average volume. The Ridgefield, Conn., operator
of dutyfree stores, reported net income for the first quarter
ended April 30 of 18 cents a share, up from 12 cents a year
earlier. Gerald F. Egan, chief financial officer, told Dow
Jones Professional Investor Report that he and John A. Couri,
chief executive officer, are scheduled to appear today at a
Morgan Stanley-sponsored conference on growth stocks.
   BEI Electronics extended its gains. The San Francisco
maker of defense systems said Monday it agreed to buy four of
the six divisions of Systron Donner Corp. from Thorn EMI for
$22 million. BEI, which gained 7/8 Monday, rose 1 1/8 to 8
5/8.
   SkyWest climbed 1 1/8 to 8 1/4. The St. George, Utah,
regional airline Monday reported net income for the fiscal
year ending March 31 of 91 cents a share, up from 73 cents in
1989.
   Timberline Software continued to climb following a
favorable analyst's report about the Beaverton, Ore., maker
of accounting and information-management software. Thomas P.
Cox, Timberline's vice president and chief financial officer,
told DJPIR Monday that a "buy" recommendation appearing in
the current edition of the Financial Research Center Special
Situations Letter, Framingham, Mass., sparked Monday's
two-point rise in the stock. Timberline added 1 1/2 to 14
yesterday.
   Central Sprinkler plunged 4 1/2 to 18 1/4 after the
Lansdale, Pa., maker of fire sprinkler systems reported net
income for the second quarter ended April 30 of 24 cents a
share, down from 28 cents a year earlier.
   Genus slid 1/2 to 3 3/4. After the market closed, the
Mountain View, Calif., maker of integrated-circuit
manufacturing equipment said that it expects to report a net
loss of 35 to 45 cents a share for the second quarter ending
June 30, compared with net income of two cents a share in the
first quarter. Genus cautioned investors in late March that
earnings would be sluggish in the first half of the year. In
the 1989 second quarter it earned 26 cents a share, including
some nonrecurring items.
   Price Co. dropped 2 1/2 to 36 3/4 after Salomon Brothers
analyst Jack D. Seibald cut his investment opinion on the
stock to a "sell" from "hold" and recommended that clients
instead buy shares of Costco Wholesale, DJPIR reported. Mr.
Seibald, who cited continually slowing sales at Price, a San
Diego operator of cash-and-carry membership wholesale clubs,
also shaved his earnings estimates for the company, DJPIR
reported. Shares of Costco, which is based in Kirkland,
Wash., advanced 5/8 to 41 1/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Blackstone Group
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BLACKSTONE GROUP (New York) -- David C. Batten was named a
general partner at this investment boutique, effective July
1. Mr. Batten, 45 years old, has been head of the
equity-capital-markets department at First Boston Corp., a
unit of CS First Boston Group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<LP>
   Team Effort
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   I never attempt to type quickly;
   On this I have taken an oath --
   Since my hands are quicker than my eyes,
   And my mind is slower than both.
   -- Joshua Adams.
   ---
   Report En Route
                                                                                                       

   Here's a bit of human nature
   That I've observed from near and far:
   People are never too busy
   To tell you how busy they are.
   -- Herm Albright.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   FED OFFICIALS APPEAR to have no intention of cutting
short-term interest rates, despite signs of a stagnant
economy. The officials seem convinced that last week's weak
employment report doesn't presage a recession. Furthermore,
they are concerned that their tight-money policies have so
far failed to head off an acceleration of inflation.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tomkins of Britain agreed to acquire Philips Industries, a
maker of windows, bathtubs and other products, for $550
million. The deal follows the collapse of a buy-out of
Philips.
   ---
   National Intergroup's chairman agreed to step down next
year after the firm sells everything but its drug
distributor. Dissident holders expressed satisfaction, but
said the whole company should be liquidated.
   ---
   Sales of U.S.-built cars and light trucks fell 3.3% in
late May. But auto makers dismissed the possibility of huge
discounts at the end of the model year in September, because
stocks of unsold vehicles are relatively modest.
   ---
   Stock and bond prices declined as investors took profits
after two days of strong gains. The Dow Jones industrials
fell 10.19 points to 2925.00.
   ---
   The cable TV industry indicated it would accept a
reregulation of its basic rates, and limits on the size and
activities of major operators.
   ---
   Drexel is expected to present a proposed reorganization
plan to its creditors today that would pay them 100 cents on
the dollar.
   ---
   Saudi Arabia moved to damp speculation that it is
launching an oil-price war, after the kingdom's discount
plans triggered a petroleum sell-off.
   ---
   Businessland is forming a Japanese unit with Canon,
Fujitsu, Sony and Toshiba as investors. The move by the
biggest U.S. dealer of personal computers supplements a
similar push into Europe. But the Japanese PC market may
prove perilous.
   ---
   Equimark's Claire Gargalli quit as head of its main
banking unit amid speculation that the parent intends to put
itself up for sale. Equimark's chairman denied any sale
plans.
   ---
   Three Campbell Soup holders pooled most of their 17.4%
stake and called again for a sale of the firm. Campbell stock
jumped on the news.
   ---
   The Bush administration unveiled its plan to give the SEC
jurisdiction over stock-index futures. The proposal would
stiffen regulation of the products and also give the
government power to set margin requirements.
   ---
   Saatchi posted an $11.8 million fiscal first-half loss,
citing heavy debt, a British ad slowdown and consulting
losses. Separately, the firm agreed to sell Hay Group to the
consulting unit's management for $90 million.
   ---
   Limited antitrust liability for certain joint production
ventures was endorsed by the House. Triple damages would no
longer apply if the activities were disclosed to the
government.
   ---
   Greyhound Lines may be forced to make peace with its
striking drivers if it is to emerge successfully from Chapter
11, some creditors believe. They may demand such a
settlement.
   ---
   Increasing SEC power to gather Wall Street data was
approved by the House. The bill, which must be reconciled
with a Senate version, would also let the agency take steps
against program trading, a provision opposed by the Bush
administration.
   ---
   Coca-Cola Enterprises agreed to purchase a bottler in
Arkansas for $250 million and to sell bottling interests in
Ohio for $120 million.
   ---
   Adolph Coors agreed to buy its first brewery outside
Colorado from Stroh, giving the buyer its first large group
of union workers in 13 years.
   ---
   Paramount Communications posted a 67% drop in fiscal
secondquarter profit, but reversed its loss from continuing
operations.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 199,720,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2925.00, off 10.19; transportation 1212.59, up 4.74;
utilities 215.10, off 0.32.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3419.49, off
7.41.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.71, up 0.98; spot
index 132.99, up 0.53.
   Dollar: 152.45 yen, up 0.05; 1.6850 marks, off 0.0005.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Unit to Exercise Option
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Acceptance Corp., the financing
arm of General Motors Corp., said it will exercise its option
to redeem on July 15 all of its 11.75% debentures due to
mature July 15, 2000. The debentures will be redeemed at 102%
of their face amount.
   The debentures were sold in July 1980 in the amount of
$200 million, $150 million of which are currently
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Conversion Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CVD
</CO>
<LP>
   CONVERSION INDUSTRIES Inc. (Pasadena, Calif.) -- William
M. Hitchcock and D. Grant Macdonald were named to the board
of this independent power-production company, expanding the
size of the board to seven members. Conversion said Mr.
Hitchcock is managing partner of Bedford Street Group, a
Santa Monica, Calif., investment-management company and Mr.
Macdonald is a director of Yorkton Continental Securities
Inc., a Toronto-based securities brokerage firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor --
   Agony of Alzheimer's:
   Help Is on the Way
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your page-one article about the challenges faced by
families and other care givers of Alzheimer's disease victims
("Life With Alzheimer's Is Often the Hardest on Families of
the Sick," May 2) was exceptional. As the son of an
Alzheimer's victim, I know the agony and pain faced by
millions of American families.
   A bipartisan coalition in Congress is introducing
legislation that details the funding increases necessary for
research into Alzheimer's and outreach to its victims. Named
the CARE bill (Comprehensive Alzheimer's Assistance Research
and Education Act), it will authorize $300 million for
research funding in fiscal 1991, more than a twofold increase
in the current funding of $149 million. It also authorizes
family support demonstration projects throughout the country
and federal matching grants for states to develop such
programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alzheimer's is nothing new, but comprehensive
authorization legislation with the support of a broad
coalition of policy makers has never been introduced in
Congress. In years past, funding for research and outreach
has been done on a piecemeal basis by the appropriations
committees. The CARE bill will change that, signaling that
the federal government is making Alzheimer's a top priority.
   Sen. Mark O. Hatfield
   (R., Ore.)
   Washington
   ---
   Having lost my husband to this dreadful illness, I am
aware of the tremendous burdens placed upon not only the
patients, but also their families and care givers. It is
distressful to learn that the government's research budget is
only $149 million for this fiscal year. For those involved in
this crusade against the cruelest and most destructive of all
diseases, we find it difficult to understand why the funding
for this type of dementia is still pitifully small.
   Dorothy Kirsten French
   Founder
   The French Foundation for Alzheimer Research
   Los Angeles
   ---
   Your article is outstanding in describing the suffering of
all involved in the care of their destroyed family member.
   Very poor federal support is being given to the efforts of
the researchers at the National Institute of Mental Health in
their efforts to find the cause, the cure and ultimately the
prevention of Alzheimer's.
   Unmentioned was the continued refusal of the government to
allow fetal-tissue research, which has shown the most
immediate promise for restoring those with Alzheimer's. When
will all of us rise up and insist that this promising line of
research be supported by our government?
   Abraham M. Fuchs
   Ambler, Pa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   United Medicorp Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UMCI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   UNITED MEDICORP Inc. said it registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to offer 2.5 million
common shares. The Dallas-based medical insurance claims
processing company said it expects the offer to take place
after its planned 1-for-2 reverse stock split, which will be
paid June 21 to stock of record on the same date. After the
split, the company will have about 10.7 million common shares
outstanding. Proceeds from the offering will be used to repay
short-term debt, expand marketing efforts and increase the
company's operations. Eppler, Guerin &amp; Turner Inc. of Dallas
is managing the underwriting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harsco Wins Army Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HSC
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Harsco Corp. received a $25 million Army
contract for self-propelled howitzers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Gensia Pharmaceuticals Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GNSA
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENSIA PHARMACEUTICALS Inc., San Diego, announced an
initial public offering of 2.8 million common shares at $11
each. Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc., Montgomery Securities and
Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. will manage the
underwriters. Gensia said that if the underwriter's
over-allotment option to purchase an additional 420,000
shares is exercised, Gensia will have about 13,557,000 shares
outstanding after the offering. Gensia, which develops, makes
and markets novel pharmaceutical products, said it plans to
use net proceeds from the offering for funding research and
development and for general corporate purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, June 5, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 1/8% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.075% 30 to 59 days; 8.025% 60 to 89 days;
8% 90 to 119 days; 7.95% 120 to 149 days; 7.90% 150 to 179
days; 7.85% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.15%
30 days; 8.13% 60 days; 8.10% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.75% one month; 7.80% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.99% six months; 8.30% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.10% one month; 8.18% three months;
8.25% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.03% 30 days; 7.99% 60 days; 7.92%
90 days; 7.89% 120 days; 7.87% 150 days; 7.83% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% three months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/4% one month;
8 5/16% three months; 8 3/8% six months; 8 9/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.75; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, June 4, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.69% 13 weeks; 7.62% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.02%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.96%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.65%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.84%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Comair Holdings Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS COMR
</CO>
<LP>
   COMAIR HOLDINGS Inc. (Cincinnati) -- Raymond A. Mueller,
chairman and co-founder, will retire from this regional
airline. He will remain a board member. David Mueller,
president and chief executive officer, was named chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equimark Bank Unit Chairwoman Quits
   Amid Speculation Firm to Go on the Block
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   EQK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- The chairwoman of Equimark Corp.'s main
banking unit resigned amid increased speculation that the
parent company is preparing to put itself up for sale.
   The departure of Claire Gargalli, one of the nation's
highest-ranking woman bankers, as chairwoman of Equibank
comes one week after the resignation of another top
executive, Judith E. Fellheimer. The moves are part of a
cost-cutting program in which more than 20 middle and senior
managers have been fired, four Philadelphia branch banks have
been sold, and executive perks have been trimmed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The moves have prompted speculation that Equimark's
embattled chairman, Alan S. Fellheimer, who together with his
wife owns 13% of Equimark, is trying to trim the bank to make
it more attractive for sale. The departure of the bank unit's
two most senior executives has also fueled rumors that
Equibank may have unacknowledged problem loans. But in an
interview, Mr. Fellheimer vigorously denied that either the
company was for sale or that the executives were fired.
   Wall Street reacted favorably to the news as buyers bid up
the stock on takeover speculation. In New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, Equimark rose 75 cents to $8.625 in heavy
trading.
   For his part, Mr. Fellheimer insisted he has no plans to
sell the bank. He contends the recent cost-savings were made
necessary when Equimark's $116 million acquisition of
National Bancshares Corp. of Texas fell through. Equimark,
which has about $3.8 billion in assets, had added staff
assuming that the deal would come to fruition.
   Moreover, Mr. Fellheimer said, personnel cuts were needed
because the focus of the bank has changed. With earnings
down, Equimark won't be looking for acquisitions, which have
been a source of growth over the past several years.
   Even without diversions, the bank has plenty of problems
at home. The bank had a loss of $15.4 million in the first
quarter and is dogged by rumors that it will have to take
further write-offs this year to cover bad real estate loans,
particularly in the Philadelphia area.
   Mr. Fellheimer wouldn't comment on the possibility of more
write-offs or on earnings projections.
   The 57-year-old Ms. Gargalli said she walked away from her
job, which paid about $600,000 a year before bonuses, because
she agrees that the company had too many senior executives
for its current size. Her decision to leave clearly surprised
many at the bank. At one department meeting where the
announcement was made, employees gasped when they heard the
news.
   Ms. Gargalli, who will receive a severance package, said
the decision to leave Equimark was her own. She worked at the
bank unit since 1984 when federal regulators were threatening
to shut it down, and eventually became Equimark's No. 2
executive. She had held the top post since 1987, and will be
succeeded in that post by James McLaughlin, currently the
bank's president.
   Her departure leaves Mr. Fellheimer without two longtime
executives who were instrumental in helping to bring Equimark
back to financial health after he became chairman in 1985.
Nevertheless, he insisted that the changes were necessary.
"I'm doing everything I can to slim down" the company, he
said. "We had no sacred cows."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bethlehem Steel Might Trim Products,
   Examine Joint Ventures, Chairman Says
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BS LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bethlehem Steel Corp., still struggling with lackluster
performance at its major Pennsylvania operations, may
eventually have to scale back certain products.
   Chairman Walter F. Williams said the company remains
committed to its three Pennsylvania plants, despite their
continued lackluster performance. But the No. 2 steelmaker
may have to take "some other steps" in the future, he
acknowledges, such as changing the product mix at those
sites. He declined to elaborate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, while Bethlehem hasn't yet seen the need to
enter a major joint-venture agreement with a foreign
steelmaker, Mr. Williams said "this could change."
   He said Pennsylvania plants in Bethlehem, Steelton, and
Johnstown have made great strides in becoming more efficient
but continue to face tough minimill competition, excess
capacity and dwindling markets. He pointed out, for example,
that the market for heavy rail, which is made at Steelton, is
practically nonexistent.
   Moreover, minimills have concentrated on bar products,
which Bethlehem makes at its Johnstown plant, and are
increasingly looking to the Bethlehem's own Northeast
backyard to locate operations. In addition, structural
products, made at Bethlehem and used for building, have
suffered from the soft construction market.
   While Mr. Williams doesn't expect to undertake massive
capital programs at those operations, he said the company
would add enough capital to ensure "viable operations as time
goes by." He said all three provide "positive cash flow."
   The company could try to renegotiate a lower-cost labor
accord with the United Steelworkers of America for those
plants. Mr. Williams noted that the 50-month contract,
negotiated last year, recognized that certain operations
facing intense competition might require new contract terms.
"We have been doing some talking," with the union, he said.
   He said he doesn't expect any "big change," such as
closing plants in the near future. "We think we can still
hold our own" in structural, bar, and rail products, he said.
   Bethlehem's prize plants at Sparrows Point and Burns
Harbor, he said are "both very good and will be better." The
company is spending $200 million to modernize its hot-strip
mill at Sparrows Point and recently completed a $50 million
vacuum degassing facility at Burns Harbor.
   Bethlehem also plans to spend $300 million to build three
hot-dip coating lines to create corrosion-resistant sheets of
steel.
   Most other major steelmakers have entered into
joint-venture agreements with foreign steelmakers to build
new coating lines. Bethlehem hasn't to date but it "very
possibly could" at one of the new coating lines, Mr. Williams
said.
   "Up to now we haven't seen a fit," he said. He pointed out
that steelmakers typically form joint ventures to get cash or
technology, but Bethlehem has an untouched $500 million
revolving line of credit and already buys technology from
foreign companies.
   Mr. Williams declined to make a specific second-quarter
earnings projection, but said "we're still predicting that
the second half will be a little stronger and 1991 even
stronger than that." In the year-ago quarter, Bethlehem
earned $84.1 million, or $1.03 a share, on sales of $1.43
billion.
   Steelmakers in general don't expect this year's second
quarter to top the robust year-ago period, when the industry
was still enjoying the tail end of a two-year recovery.
Although prices and orders seem to be rising, most of the
improvements won't be felt until the second half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   You Can Bet Someone Out There
   Is Already Scripting `Airport '90'
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   As urban problems go, groundhogs don't rank that high in
most places. In Columbus, Ohio, however, the fat, furry
creatures have overrun the airport, and the authorities there
want to take up arms -- literally -- against them.
   But turning prairie land next to the paved runways into a
sort of Wild West makes some people uneasy. The issue came to
a head Monday night, when the City Council voted on whether
to allow airport personnel to use firearms against several
thousand of the burrowing rodents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The problem stems from a population explosion beneath the
grassy 180-acre field. Officials attribute the groundhogs'
fertility to a spate of warm winters.
   The plump creatures "don't hibernate as long as they did
in colder weather," says John Carpenter, operations officer
for the Port Authority International Airport. "They get bored
and have to do something, so they have more kids."
   And a mischievous lot they are. Among other things, they
burrow underground and gnaw on buried electrical cables. Mr.
Carpenter also fears a gamboling groundhog may collide with a
small aircraft and perhaps mangle the landing gear.
   Federal regulations being what they are, Mr. Carpenter
says the groundhogs cast a shadow over the future of the
airfield. Airport authorities have tried to kill the critters
by dropping cannisters of poison gas into burrows and setting
traps above ground.
   "Somone suggested mothballs, but with 180 acres, you're
talking about a lot of mothballs," Mr. Carpenter says.
   Desperate, officials asked the city if the airport could
arm several maintenance employees with shotguns and so-called
varmint slugs, which have a hollow point and spread out upon
impact, thus tending to kill rather than wound. "It's a very
humane way to go," says Mr. Carpenter.
   But the council rejected the idea by a 5-2 vote. Members
said that the plan sounded extreme and that there might be
better ways to control the population.
   Like contraception. Animal-rights representatives argued
at the council meeting that Columbus should consider wildlife
birth control, which entails putting chemicals into animal
food.
   "In the case of nuisance animals, man's first solution is
`let's kill it,'" says Robin Russell, director of Protect Our
Earth Treasures, an animal-rights group. "But if you use
birth control, after a couple of years, you've eradicated the
problem."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dissident Faction
   At Campbell Soup
   Pools Voting Stake
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   CPB
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Three members of Campbell Soup Co.'s controlling Dorrance
family who pressed for a sale of the company last winter
disclosed they pooled most of their 17.4% stake into a voting
trust. They also said their feelings about a sale are
"substantially unchanged."
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Dorrance Hamilton, Hope van Beuren, Diana Norris, and their
spouses said they "continue to believe that the best
interests of the shareholders would be served by a sale of
the company."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wall Street reacted sharply to the statements. In heavy
trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Campbell shares rose
$3.375 to close at $60.
   The newly formed voting trust replaces an earlier trust
that included several other family members. The previous
trust was dissolved in December when the Dorrances publicly
split over the independence of the Camden, N.J., food
company.
   The latest filing threatens to reignite the family feud,
which pitched the three dissidents against the three children
of late family patriarch John T. "Jack" Dorrance Jr., with
three other family members in the middle. Jack Dorrance's
children control about 31.5% of the company. The other family
members have a combined 9.8% stake.
   In January, Campbell appointed a new chief executive
officer, David W. Johnson. The dissident shareholders agreed
then to suspend temporarily their drive for a sale to give
Mr. Johnson a chance to improve the company's mediocre
financial performance.
   In yesterday's filing, the dissidents said they support
Mr. Johnson's "strategic measures" to bolster returns. The
dissidents also said their latest call for a sale of Campbell
"does not reflect dissatisfaction" with the new chief.
   "But Mr. Johnson has clearly not embraced the sale of the
company as his objective," said Peter Haje, an attorney with
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &amp; Garrison, which represents
the three dissidents.
   The formation of the trust is "basically the formalization
of a situation that has existed for some months," added an
adviser to the group.
   A Campbell spokesman said the company's 15-member board,
which includes six family members, is committed to the
company's independence and sees no reason to change its
position. Mrs. Hamilton is considered the only acknowledged
dissident on the board.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Retailing:
   Businessland Enters Japan,
   Aided by 4 Big Local Firms
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   BLI CANNY J.FUT SNE J.TOS JAPAN IBM
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Businessland Inc., the biggest U.S. dealer of personal
computers, is moving into Japan with the help of four of that
country's biggest electronics concerns.
   The company plans to announce today that it is forming a
Japanese subsidiary and that Canon Inc., Fujitsu Ltd., Sony
Corp. and Toshiba Corp. have each taken a 5% stake in the
venture. Softbank Corp., a distributor of software and
computer peripherals in Japan, is taking 26% of the company,
leaving Businessland with 54%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Businessland's entry into Japan is part of its continuing
effort to expand abroad after a decade of rapid growth in the
U.S. In 1987, the San Jose, Calif.-based company bought a
computer retailer in the U.K.; this year, it bought one in
West Germany, and it is looking to purchase a dealer in
France.
   Still, the Japanese market presents different problems
from Europe, where demand for personal computers is outpacing
that in the U.S. Only a tiny percentage of Japanese use
computers at work. Moreover, many U.S. retailers fear that
Japanese customs and entrenched local retailers limit their
access to Japan's estimated $3 billion market for personal
computers.
   Though the stakes are high, Businessland's Japanese
subsidiary plans to start small, with a capitalization of $20
million, a lone Tokyo office and 14 employees (rising to 100
by year end).
   The caution is wise; selling personal computers in Japan
can be perilous for outsiders. In addition to an extensive
network of local computer dealers in Japan, there is no
single standard -- as in the U.S. -- around which virtually
all hardware and software revolves.
   Few other U.S. dealers have tried to crack Japan's tough
market. Among Businessland's major U.S. rivals, only
Computerland Inc. has a presence in Japan, but its roughly 30
stores are owned and operated by Japanese nationals, who
purchased the operation from Computerland in 1987. Also,
Businessland faces competition from Otsuka Shokai, a major
Japanese personal-computer dealer.
   David Norman, Businessland's chief executive, believes he
will partly overcome the market's obstacles with help from
the Japanese partners. The arrangement is "an example of
Japanese companies helping American companies compete in
their marketplace," he said. "It gives us a lot of
credibility from the very beginning."
   "I think the opportunity for success for an American
dealer entering Japan is slim and none," said Michael
Shabazian, president and chief operating officer of
Intelligent Electronics Inc., which operates about 900
franchise computer dealerships in the U.S. "I think Japan
would be a very difficult market."
   Each of the big electronics concerns, for instance, will
supply Businessland with a variety of their computers,
printers and other products to sell. However, Businessland --
at least at first -- won't offer some of the bellwether
products it sells in the U.S., most notably equipment from
Hewlett-Packard Co., Apple Computer Inc. and Compaq Computer
Corp. Businessland will carry products made by International
Business Machines Co., its biggest sales producer in the U.S.
   Mr. Norman said what brands Businessland would carry
wasn't a precondition for receiving investments from Canon,
Toshiba, Fujitsu and Sony.
   Besides gaining a new outlet for their wares, the Japanese
electronics firms are hoping that Businessland's emphasis on
tying together computers and related products from different
manufacturers will stimulate demand for office-automation
equipment.
   "The trend in the U.S. and Europe of integrated networking
and end-user computing is now appearing in Japanese
corporations," said Tadishi Sekizawa, Fujitsu's executive
director. "Businessland's experience . . . will be very
valuable to Japanese companies as they experience this change
in their computing environment."
   For its part, Businessland hopes the deal will give it an
inside track with Japanese corporate buyers of computers.
   "Historically, Japanese corporations have invested heavily
in automation to increase productivity in the factory, then
in research and development labs," Keizo Yamaji, Canon's
president, said in a statement. "We feel the next big
opportunity will be in the office."
   Businessland at first plans to gain a foothold in Japan by
catering to the numerous foreign multinationals doing
business there. But in the long run, it wants to act as a
spur toward standardization among personal-computer parts.
The lack of standardization limits customer choices as
manufacturers can't agree on common specifications. With four
of Japan's biggest electronics companies -- all major
computer and peripheral makers -- joining to back
Businessland, this could change.
   "My goal is to convince manufacturers to closely work
together and help the customer," said Reizo Harada, president
of Businessland's Japanese subsidiary, who has worked with
U.S. computer makers in Japan for the past 29 years. "If we
are successful, we can create momentum for standards here."
   Businessland shares closed at $9, up 50 cents, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Beer Marketing Tactic Barred in Wisconsin
   ----
   By James P. Miller and Wayne E. Green
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   MO WX
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A Wisconsin appeals court has ruled that beer sales
representatives can't buy a round for patrons of bars they
service, but a Milwaukee-area beer distributor is considering
taking it to a higher bench.
   Under a decades-old state law designed to prevent brewers
and wholesalers from gaining control of retail outlets, they
are prohibited from giving bar owners "furniture, fixtures,
fittings, equipment, money or other thing of value."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales people for closely held Miller Brands-Milwaukee Inc.
have for years been following the widespread practice known
as "trade spending," buying drinks all around when they drop
in to service an account at a bar. Federal law permits such
spending.
   But Wisconsin's Department of Revenue, after receiving a
complaint, began an investigation of whether Miller Brands'
largesse violates state law.
   Miller Brands went to court, and got a summary judgment
that the practice isn't a violation. But last week, the
appeals court said buying a round generates profit for the
bar owner, as well as good will, and that those things
unambiguously represent "a thing of value."
   Trade spending has been "going on in the industry as long
as there's been a brewing industry," says James Shellow, an
attorney for Miller Brands. The appeals court's
interpretation, he says, "suggests that any Miller officer
couldn't buy drinks in a tavern, couldn't even buy dinner in
a place licensed to sell alcohol."
   For that matter, says Mr. Shellow, under the wording of
the law, the court's ruling would mean stockholders of Philip
Morris Cos. would be under the same prohibitions. Miller
Brands, which distributes beer made by Philip Morris's Miller
Brewing unit but has no other links to the company, is
considering asking the state's supreme court to review the
ruling.
   In a dissenting opinion, one of the appeals court judges
pointed out that Miller Brands doesn't require patrons to buy
its brands, and pays full price for whatever the customers
order. The law was originally designed to block the
once-rampant abuses known as the "tied house," in which
manufacturers and wholesalers gained control of retail
outlets by creating financial obligations through costly
"gifts" or loans. The judge said there is "nothing in the
record to indicate" Miller Brands' purchases were aimed at
creating such an obligation. Rather, the trade spending
appears to be "no more than a reasonable marketing device,"
he says.
   If "purchasing a beverage -- a beer, or perhaps a soda --
for a retailer's customer is a thing of value to the retailer
within the statute's purview, what about a stick of gum," the
dissent asked. "A handful of peanuts?"
   ---
   GARY HART and Denver law firm form international
consulting venture.
   Called International Strategies, the venture will be an
affiliate owned by Davis, Graham &amp; Stubbs, the Denver firm
where Mr. Hart has been an attorney since he left the U.S.
Senate in 1987. Since then Mr. Hart has been heavily involved
in helping the firm's existing and potential clients explore
international business markets. Apparently, the new venture
is at least partially aimed at taking advantage of his
ability to attract business in this area.
   David Miller, a principal at the Denver consulting firm of
Greenberg Baron Simon &amp; Miller, will be a consultant to the
venture, which will help American and foreign companies
pursue international business and trade, find joint venture
partners, deal with governments and arrange financing.
   Mr. Hart said the firm has heard from an increasing number
of businesses wanting to know about expanding into Eastern
bloc countries, particularly the Soviet Union. "In the last
year or so, it's dramatically increased," he said, noting
that the firm currently is working on a half-dozen
"significant" projects. Mr. Hart recently has been involved
in the efforts of one client, U S West Inc., to develop a
$500 million fiber-optic cable in the Soviet Union.
   The former senator and presidential candidate said his
role with the firm wouldn't change. But since the expanding
consulting business isn't strictly a law practice, it was
decided that creating an affiliate was an appropriate move.
   "We just felt that to keep the professional lines clear it
would be best to have an affiliate that advised people, with
the understanding that if negotiations went forward, Davis,
Graham &amp; Stubbs would end up being legal counsel," Mr. Hart
said.
   ---
   SOFTWARE THEFT CASE against Westinghouse can go to trial,
judge rules.
   A federal judge in Connecticut cleared the way for a
software developer's suit against Westinghouse Communications
Software, Inc., a unit of Westinghouse Electric Corp.; the
subsidiary's chairman, Oliver MacKinnon; and Communications
Design Corp., a company primarily owned by Mr. MacKinnon.
   The judge rejected the defendants' request to dismiss
plaintiff John McCann's complaint that Communications Design
stole and marketed telephone management systems software
allegedly developed by Mr. McCann when he worked there.
Westinghouse Communications purchased Communications Design's
assets in 1989.
   Mr. McCann alleges that joint ventures between
Westinghouse and Ameritech Information System rely on
software he developed. He is seeking up to $65 million in
damages.
   Richard Horgan, of the Stamford, Conn., office of
Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam &amp; Roberts, which represents Mr.
MacKinnon, said Mr. McCann was fired from Communications
Design in 1981 because he was unable to perform his job and
the programs he wrote did not work as intended. Hoping to
"get rich," Mr. McCann "came out of the woodwork" to file the
suit when he learned that Mr. MacKinnon was selling his
company, Mr. Horgan said. He has filed a motion requesting
sanctions against Mr. McCann and his lawyers for "bringing a
baseless suit."
   A trial date hasn't been scheduled for the case.
   A lawyer for Westinghouse, Edward Hennessey of Robinson &amp;
Cole in Hartford, said the company was aware of Mr. McCann's
claim when it acquired Communications Design's assets and
that the purchase agreement protects Westinghouse "should
there be some validity to the claim."
   ---
   TOP-GROSSING FIRM in Atlanta adopts two-tier partnership.
   King &amp; Spalding, a 242-attorney firm, decided to add a
"nonequity" partnership level in an effort, it says, to
retain high-quality lawyers who would not have been made full
equity partners after their stints as associates.
   For some lawyers, the nonequity partnership will be an
interim position, for others a final landing point. "They are
all still going to be eligible to be considered to election
to equity partnership," said James Wildman, managing partner
of King &amp; Spalding. "But for those not qualified, we think
this will provide a new opportunity for long-term employment
at the firm that didn't exist before."
   The firm will begin using the category when it names its
new partners July 1. The nonequity partners will be salaried
and will attend partnership meetings but won't vote.
   The move reflects something of a national trend at major
firms: The long and winding road to partnership is getting
longer and more winding -- and chances are increasing that
the path may not lead to full equity partnership at all.
   Driven by the economic realities of a more competitive
legal environment, such alternatives to equity partnership
are becoming more common. "Plenty of midsized firms are
looking at or implementing these programs," said Ward Bower,
of Altman &amp; Weil Inc., a Newtown Square, Pa., legal
management consulting firm. The nonequity partnership creates
"a more flexible career path."
   Some firms are adopting other alternatives, such as
"senior attorney" or "senior counsel" posts, or in effect
creating different tiers of partners by varying compensation
among them.
   ---
   BAKER &amp; MCKENZIE nabs 14-lawyer real-estate finance group.
   The New York office of Baker &amp; McKenzie added three
partners and 11 associates from the real estate finance group
of New York law firm Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander &amp; Ferdon.
What lured the group away, says one of the partners, Richard
Weidman, was Baker &amp; McKenzie's international business,
especially in Tokyo, Hong Kong and other Pacific hubs.
   Says Mr. Weidman, "We were not dissatisfied with Mudge,
but the situation at Baker &amp; McKenzie, the match of our
client base with their infrastructure, was just so good."
   Baker &amp; McKenzie, based in Chicago, has a total of 1,515
lawyers in 50 offices world-wide. The firm plans to double
the size of its New York office, which has 100 lawyers now,
in the next two years. Areas targeted for expansion are
finance, creditors' rights and environmental law.
   Donald J. Zoeller, a member of the executive committee at
Mudge Rose, said of the exodus: "It's just one of those
things that happens in the lives of large law firms. There's
a great deal of mobility in the profession now and we have
been spared from it mercifully for a long time."
   Mr. Zoeller said two partners and a number of associates
remain in Mudge Rose's real estate finance group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FirsTier Buy-Back Suspended
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   FRST
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   OMAHA, Neb. -- FirsTier Financial Inc., a bank holding
company and financial services concern, said it suspended its
previously announced plan to purchase 100,000 of its 5.8
million common shares outstanding. A spokesman declined to
give a reason for the suspension, but he said the company has
already bought back 25,000 shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Korean End Game
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Forty years after communist North Korea attacked the
South, it looks as if the Korean War could finally be near an
end. Since reaching the 1953 truce, South Korea has proven
its superiority at everything except the North Korean
specialty of repression. Now North Korea's chief ally, the
Soviet Union, seems poised to defect to the winning side.
   President Gorbachev met Monday in San Francisco with South
Korean President Roh Tae-Woo, who emerged to announce their
agreement that in due course "normal bilateral relations will
be restored" between South Korea and the Soviet Union. Mr.
Roh meets with President Bush today in Washington.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Genuine friendship between Moscow and Seoul could reduce
the risk of a big war starting in East Asia. For decades the
Korean demilitarized zone has been a trigger point separating
the troops of South Korea and the U.S. in the south from the
North Korean army. The North's Kim Il Sung has for decades
carried on a totalitarian balancing act supported by his two
old comrades-in-arms, China and the Soviet Union. So it is a
welcome turn that Mr. Gorbachev met with South Korea's
elected president, leaving the self-designated Great Leader,
Kim Il Sung, to stew in Pyongyang.
   South Korea has a lot to offer, both as a business partner
and model of development. Rebuilding on the war ruins of the
1950s, equipped with institutions that defend property rights
and foster trade, South Korea has forged itself into a
respected democratic power and force in the world market.
Seoul's economic ties with China and the Soviet Union have
been growing for some time, even without diplomatic
relations.
   On the South Korean side, the biggest threat to its
continued progress comes from Moscow's well-armed comrades,
the North Korean communists. Mr. Gorbachev may not have the
power to tell them what to do, but by leaving them to ferment
in deeper isolation, he could help speed their downfall.
   North Korea has a Ceausescu problem. In Kim Il Sung,
Pyongyang fields the world's most longstanding dictator,
installed by Stalin in 1948. Great Leader Kim has whiled away
the decades building monuments to himself and grooming his
son, Dear Leader Kim Jong-Il, as his heir. Under the Great
Leader's misrule, North Koreans have completely missed out on
the South's development.
   But North Korea still gets an estimated 70% of its weapons
from the Soviet Union, including advanced MiG fighters. In
return, Pyongyang grants port access to Soviet warships and
overflight rights to Soviet reconnaissance planes. It is a
useful relationship for the Soviet Union if Mr. Gorbachev is
planning to go to war in Asia -- a possibility it would be
foolish to discount as long as Mr. Gorbachev's reforms remain
in doubt.
   If Mr. Gorbachev wants to be friends with Seoul, the least
he could do would be to yank Soviet ties to Stalin's
disgusting legacy on the Korean peninsula. That is what we'd
hope Mr. Roh would demand, and Mr. Bush would second, as the
price of normalizing relations.
   It's understandable that with South Korea still suffering
the growing pains of democracy, Mr. Roh is hoping to draw
popular support back home by hurrying reunification. But
having waited four decades to nail down victory in the Korean
War, South Korea can afford to wait a bit longer, while
asking that in the end game Moscow prove its good faith by
abandoning the bad guys.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Correction
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<LP>
   Vincent van Gogh's "Portrait of Doctor Gachet" was
recently sold at Christie's. That information was misstated
in "Modern Artists Forget Their History," an article on
Friday's editorial page.
   (See: "Modern Artists Forget Their History -- WSJ June 1,
1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Only Half a Revolution in Poland
   ----
   By Anne Applebaum
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARSAW -- In Washington, London, or Moscow nowadays,
Poland's economic reform is often described as a miracle.
People make favorable comparisons between Poland and other
new East Bloc democracies; they praise Poland too in
discussions of what must be done in the Soviet Union. Seen
from Warsaw, though, Poland's "shock treatment" looks like
the kind of reform communist regimes used to announce. Poles
recognize it for what it is: a price rise without structural
changes. Change won't come until Poland makes basic switches
in its program.
   The reform constructed by Tadeusz Mazowiecki's government
with the aid of foreigners such as Harvard's Jeffrey Sachs
has emphasized control of demand rather than freeing supply.
To increase production, Poland needs to untie private
business and encourage foreign investment. The government has
done little to provide the low-tax, uncomplicated environment
in which businesses can grow. Instead, it is playing around
with such macroeconomic issues as the money supply and
interest rates. As a result, half a year into reform, Poland
has yet to produce items anyone would want to buy. None of
Poland's big, inefficient state enterprises -- not even the
Lenin Shipyards -- has gone bankrupt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the year's start, the Polish government cut or
abolished most consumer subsidies. It raised interest rates
to a rate that cut chronic borrowing. It set a single rate
for zloty convertibility. It set about preventing wage
increases via prohibitive taxes -- the marginal price of
labor to employers rises sharply when wages hit a certain
level. The predictable happened: Prices rose and real income
fell nearly overnight. Hyperinflation disappeared -- people
could no longer buy anything. Imports slowed and exports
grew. Poland now boasts a growing trade surplus and a
relatively stable currency.
   But fierce recession also grips the country. Some figures
show a drop in production of 30% from last year. Monetary and
fiscal reforms cannot force state monopolies to act like
private companies. Faced with lower demand and forced to pay
real interest rates for the first time, Poland's state
enterprises have mostly decided to make fewer items and
charge higher prices for them. Nothing is forcing them to
cease acting like state enterprises.
   Business conditions discourage growth of both domestic
private enterprise and foreign business. Most of the old
legal system is still in place. Tax law dictates extremely
high levels of turnover tax (the tax companies pay on all
business), about 20%. The law also keeps labor costs
prohibitive by requiring firms to pay social security tax of
about 40% of wages. Property laws are unclear. The phony
cooperatives that shouldn't be controlling retail space still
do; the property developers who want to buy land still
cannot. Commercial law is overcomplicated. Oldstyle
bureaucrats still control the issue of business licenses.
   For foreign companies, exchange controls continue to make
repatriation of profits problematic. Most foreign companies
still do business in hard currency. To retrieve their money,
companies must exchange any profits earned in hard currency
for zlotys, and then exchange them for hard currency, a
two-step process wasting time and money. High duties on many
products discourage imports. Wage limitations dictated by the
reform also prevent foreign companies from competing for
workers. A survey of Warsaw's luxury hotels reveals that the
alleged capitalists flocking here are mainly looking to
provide services to business or invest in tourism.
Manufacturing flounders.
   Despite its vaunted free-market liberalism, the Polish
reform is still not radical enough. Rather than supporting
the notion of "equality for all enterprises, private and
state" -- the stated goal of the last communist government --
Poland needs to create conditions of inequality. Private
enterprise should be actively favored, while state
enterprise, with some exceptions, should be forced to fight
for survival. Foreign competition should be encouraged at the
expense of Polish monopolists.
   The solutions are not complicated. They include legal
reform -- making business easier to start and property easier
to buy; tax reform that would give advantage to private
enterprise with lower rates; bank lending policies that do
the same; elimination of controls over foreign trade.
   The trouble is that 90% of Polish industrial production
remains in state hands, while farms remain dependent on state
institutions. This immense state sector continues to
monopolize most resources in order to produce shoddy goods.
Most people still depend on the state in some way and resist
change. Fast privatization of state enterprises, from food
distribution to steel mills, is critical.
   Yet Poland's privatization program is on hold. It is on
this issue that society's resistance to change, at least as
reflected in its parliamentary representatives, is most
obvious. When it was written, a bill that would allow the
central government to enforce privatization was criticized as
"too cautious." Now, even this bill is stuck in Parliament.
Left-leaning deputies argue it would deprive workers of their
"rights" -- and their jobs. Right-leaning deputies claim
assets would be valued too low, allowing foreigners -- read
Germans -- to buy up Poland. Meantime, Poland faces the
prospect of more recession.
   As long as recession looms, shortages, panic-buying and
inflation will continue to haunt this society. Last month
Poland celebrated two national holidays, on May 1 and May 3.
By May 4, there was no bread in the shops and lines snaked
outside and around corners again. Whether from absence of
competition or simply left-over sluggishness, state bakers
had not found it worth their while to work on May 2.
   The desire to produce -- the instinct to compete -- has
not yet received the oxygen it needs. No amount of
pro-capitalism rhetoric will revive it; only capitalist
practice will do.
   ---
   Ms. Applebaum is Warsaw correspondent of the Economist.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Approves Bill to Limit Liability
   In Antitrust Suits for Certain Ventures
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Amid warnings that U.S. businesses are
losing markets to foreign competitors, the House approved
legislation that would provide partial antitrust protection
to certain joint production ventures.
   The bill, approved by a voice vote, would limit the
potential antitrust liability of participants in joint
production ventures who voluntarily disclose their activities
to the Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission. Those
agencies share responsibility for enforcing federal antitrust
laws.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In exchange for such notification, the participants would
be potentially liable only for "actual damages" associated
with their disclosed activities in any antitrust suit brought
against them. Under current law, such joint venture
participants face the threat of triple damages if they are
found to have violated antitrust laws.
   Although relatively few joint production ventures among
rival companies have been attacked on antitrust grounds,
"there appears to be an overdrawn, yet real, perception in
the business community that the antitrust laws generally
discourage all collaborative activity," said Rep. Jack Brooks
(D., Texas), who sponsored the bill. He said his measure was
designed to correct that inaccurate perception.
   The Brooks bill would reaffirm that multicompany
cooperative production efforts don't necessarily violate
antitrust laws and that courts must consider their potential
economic benefits in determining whether they are violations.
The legislation wouldn't apply to joint marketing and
distribution ventures.
   Some U.S. companies, especially in such high-technology
fields as semiconductors, contend that they need to pool
resources in joint ventures to compete effectively against
government-sponsored industrial combines in other nations,
including Japan. The Bush administration and lobbyists for
several high-technology industries have expressed strong
support for antitrust protection for joint production
ventures.
   But similar legislation is expected to face stiff
opposition in the Senate, led by Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D.,
Ohio), who heads the Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust. Mr.
Metzenbaum argues that U.S. companies are more likely to
succeed internationally if tough antitrust laws force them to
be more competitive at home. He has tentatively scheduled
subcommittee hearings on the Senate bill for July.
   The Brooks bill would extend to production ventures the
protection a 1984 law provided to joint research ventures.
The production legislation differs from the earlier law in
one significant way, however: It would protect only ventures
in which foreign participants have no more than 30% control.
In addition, it would require that all facilities operated by
ventures receiving protection be located within the U.S. or
its territories.
   Foreign investors and the Bush administration have
criticized the 30% limitation as discouraging international
cooperation. Mr. Brooks countered that his bill would create
"no special substantive antitrust treatment for
American-dominated" ventures. "The only advantage received by
a qualifying venture," he added, "is that its participants
will receive reduced liability exposure if their disclosed
activities are found to be anti-competitive."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trump Is Facing
   Suit Over Casinos
   From Bondholders
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A lawsuit was filed on behalf of bondholders
of two of Donald Trump's casinos, accusing the developer of a
breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the opening of
his Taj Mahal casino.
   The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Manhattan, alleges
that Mr. Trump's promotion of the $1 billion Atlantic City,
N.J., casino hurt the performance of his Trump Plaza and
Trump's Castle properties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lawsuit claims Mr. Trump violated Securities and
Exchange Commission requirements by not disclosing that he
gave the Taj Mahal confidential information about the two
casinos' clients.
   "In order to pay the interest on these bonds, you need
cash flow and for cash flow you need the high rollers," said
Edward Labaton, an attorney for the plaintiff, Peter
Stuyvesant Ltd.
   Mr. Labaton said the plaintiff seeks class-action status
on behalf of all affected bondholders.
   The lawsuit seeks a court order requiring Mr. Trump to
sell his interests in Trump's Castle and Trump Plaza if he
continues to use the confidential information to benefit the
Taj Mahal.
   Since the Taj Mahal opened in April, revenues at the two
properties have fallen by as much as 25% from the year
before. For the month of May, however, Trump Plaza revenue
rose about 24%, though that result is said to have been
distorted by a single baccarat player's loss of $10 million.
   A spokesman for Mr. Trump declined to comment.
   The lawsuit said bondholders were assured that the value
of their securities would not be hurt by Mr. Trump's opening
of Taj Mahal.
   On Monday, this newspaper reported that Mr. Trump was in
intense discussions with his bank creditors to restructure
his $2 billion in bank debt. Apparently as a result, the
casinos' bond prices plummeted, raising speculation that Mr.
Trump would not be able to make interest payments. Trump
Castle Funding's 13 3/4% bonds, maturing in 1997, declined 2
1/2 points to end at 58 1/2. Trump Plaza Funding bonds
stabilized and finished the session at 81 1/4, up 1/4 point.
   Trump Taj Mahal's bonds did not fare much better, falling
2 7/8 points to 54 1/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Clears Bill
   On SEC Ability
   To Gather Data
   ----
   By Kelvin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House passed by voice vote a bill that
would increase the Securities and Exchange Commission's power
to gather Wall Street data and that includes a
program-trading measure opposed by the Bush administration.
   The bill, largely sponsored by the SEC, is partly a
reaction to the market drops of October 1987 and October 1989
and to the collapse of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The House's Securities Markets Reform Act will have to be
reconciled with a version pending in the Senate, which
contains no provision on program trading. The provision,
pushed by Rep. Edward Markey (D., Mass.), would allow the SEC
to battle against activities that the agency has previously
deemed as producing unhealthy stock-market gyrations.
   Earlier forms of the legislation had broader
program-trading language, but Rep. Markey toned it down in an
effort to push the measure through his securities
subcommittee and eventually through the House. "We are not
talking about banning computers or legitimate program-trading
strategies," Rep. Markey said. "We are giving the SEC the
tools to protect the securities markets from manipulative
trading strategies."
   Moreover, the measure would give the SEC the power "to
constrain during volatile markets legitimate trading
strategies which nonetheless result in extraordinary
volatility."
   The Treasury Department, which repeatedly tried to derail
the program-trading provision, has called it "overly broad
and potentially harmful." At a briefing yesterday, Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady reiterated his opposition to the
provision, saying, "I see no reason to change." Senate-House
discussions are likely to focus on how to narrow the
provision into something the opponents can live with.
   The bill would enable the SEC to gather information on the
holding companies of brokerage firms, an area where the
agency had complained of a blind spot. The SEC has argued,
for example, that Drexel Burnham's brokerage unit, over which
the agency has oversight, was sending capital to the unit's
holding company, which is exempt from SEC jurisdiction. The
SEC said it was difficult to assess the health of the parent
and other holding companies that invest heavily in short-term
financings of leveraged buy-outs.
   The bill also would allow the SEC to monitor stock trading
by large investors. Furthermore, the agency would be
permitted, for the first time, to halt stock-exchange trading
in an emergency if the president didn't oppose such a move.
Currently, only the president can halt trading of the overall
market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Accord
   Is Seen Crucial
   For Greyhound
   ---
   Major Creditors Assert Pact
   Is Needed for Bus Line
   To Exit From Chapter 11
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR G X.GRE
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Some major creditors of Greyhound Lines Inc. say
that peace with the striking Amalgamated Transit Union could
be crucial to a successful reorganization of the GLI Holding
Co. unit, which filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
federal Bankruptcy Code on Monday. "They are going to have to
clarify their labor situation," said one large creditor who
asked not to be identified.
   Creditors are concerned about a National Labor Relations
Board complaint alleging that Greyhound's unfair labor
practices caused the walkout. Although Greyhound has said it
is confident it will ultimately prevail in court, the
complaint could result in Greyhound being liable for more
than $10 million per month in back pay to members of the ATU.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fearing that such a claim would have priority over most
others in a Chapter 11 proceeding, some creditors say they
will push for an agreement with the ATU. And a few, arguing
that that may be impossible with Greyhound Lines' chairman,
Fred Currey, at the helm, say a trustee should be appointed
to run Greyhound while it is in Chapter 11. "I think the only
way to get the situation moving forward and get things
resolved is to get Currey out of there," said one member of a
recently organized committee of Greyhound bondholders.
   "The creditors are frustrated with management's stated
intention not to seek labor peace with the ATU and it's not
clear that that's the most prudent course of action," said
Leigh Walzer, a bond analyst with R.D. Smith &amp; Co.
   Mr. Currey, who owns 22.2% of Greyhound's common stock,
also appears to have lost some support from Greyhound Dial
Corp., which sold the bus operation to Mr. Currey and a group
of Dallas investors in 1987. In addition to holding the
leases to many Greyhound Lines buses and terminals, Greyhound
Dial retains a 22.5% stake in GLI Holding.
   Previously, Greyhound Dial allowed Mr. Currey to vote its
stake but yesterday John Teets, Greyhound Dial's chairman,
said he considered that agreement null and void as a result
of the Chapter 11 filing.
   Greyhound Dial also said it is providing for a one-time
charge attributable to discontinued operations of $100
million, or about $2.50 a share, to establish a reserve for
the losses related to Greyhound Lines.
   Still, Mr. Currey has dealt himself some significant trump
cards in the way he filed the Chapter 11 petition, which says
that as of March 31, the company had assets of $508.7 million
and liabilities of $539.8 million, including $98.7 million in
secured debt.
   Instead of Dallas, where it is based, Greyhound filed in
Brownsville, a city of 85,000 at Texas' remote southern tip
and home of Greyhound's bus-manufacturing subsidiary.
Presiding will be U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Richard S. Schmidt,
41 years old, who administers his docket from Corpus Christi,
Texas, but hears cases in several South Texas cities.
   Already the few local bankruptcy lawyers are wondering how
they will handle the pleadings of the roughly 21,000
creditors in the case. "If they want to get a local lawyer
who knows the judge, there are only about 20 of them out
there for everybody," said Corpus Christi attorney Colin
Kaufman, secretary-treasurer of the Coastal Bend Bankruptcy
Association. "It's a real advantange if you can limit your
number of adversaries."
   ---
         Greyhound's Largest Unsecured Creditors
                                                                                                       

                                            CLAIM
                                        (In millions)
                                                                                                       

   Cede &amp; Co.                               $194.4
   Security Pacific Equip. Leasing            53.8
   Citicorp                                   31.6
   U S West Financial Services                14.1
   EDS Financial Corp.                        11.1
   American Leasing Investors                  7.0
   Aloft &amp; Co.                                 7.0
   Systems Marketing Inc.                      6.5
   Sher &amp; Co.                                  4.5
   Trust Co. of the West                       2.3
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Nebraskan Nominated
   To Board of FDIC
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush named Andrew C. Hove, a
Nebraska banker, to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
board.
   The nomination of Mr. Hove, which was expected, requires
confirmation by the Senate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Hove would fill a position on the FDIC board created
by last year's savings-and-loan bailout law. That legislation
expanded the board to five members from three, adding the
director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, as well as the
seat Mr. Hove would fill. The other members are the FDIC
chairman, the comptroller of the currency, and another
director chosen by the president, C.C. Hope, a retired vice
chairman of First Union National Bank of Charlotte, N.C.
   Mr. Hove is chairman of Minden Exchange Bank &amp; Trust in
Minden, Neb., which had $75 million in assets as of March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Stock Prices,
   Bonds Drop
   After Climb
   ---
   Investors Take Profits
   After 2 Days of Gains;
   Dollar Ends Mixed
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock and bond prices, after a brief surge in
early trading, declined under pressure from investors taking
profits after two sessions of strong gains.
   Bond prices rose sharply on news that Saudi Arabia was
cutting oil prices. But a wave of profit-taking quickly
followed, fueled by news of stronger-than-expected car sales
in late May, a rebound in oil prices as the day wore on, and
an increase in commodity prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average retreated 10.19 points to
finish at 2925.00 in brisk trading. Long-term U.S. Treasury
bond prices fell more than a 1/4 point, or more than $2.50
for each $1,000 of face amount, in moderate trading. The
dollar was narrowly mixed against major currencies as traders
hunted vainly for market-moving news.
   "Stocks took their cue from bonds, and in both cases you
had profit-taking," said Jack Solomon, market technician at
Bear Stearns. Helping buoy both markets lately was the
widening perception that lower interest rates are inevitable
because economic growth is weakening and inflation seems to
be reined in. But when expectations of lower interest rates
becomes a topic of household conversations, he said, "you
know we're going to get a correction."
   Later, in fact, the prospect of the Federal Reserve Board
lowering rates any time soon dimmed with Fed Gov. Edward
Kelley's comment that he is comfortable with the current
"moderately restrictive" monetary policy. Without the
immediate threat of recession, the Fed is likely to hold to
its policy, aimed at keeping inflation under control.
   Mr. Kelley's comments, combined with news indicating
economic strength and higher prices, was "enough bad news to
justify some profit-taking," said Philip Braverman, chief
economist at DKB Securities Corp. "If you've got it there,
you want to make sure it doesn't disappear on you."
   Technology stocks that helped spark the market's most
recent run-up were being sold yesterday, noted Joseph
Feshbach, director of technical market analysis at Shearson
Lehman Hutton.
   But some investors were taking advantage of the selling to
get into the market. Andrew Riley, head of U.S. equity
research at Yamaichi International, said he noticed a pickup
in Japanese buying of U.S. stocks yesterday.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell in heavy trading, with 199.7 million
shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers, 813 to 774.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond edged up to 8.45%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar ended mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6850 marks and 152.45 yen, compared
with 1.6855 marks and 152.40 yen Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Fed Officials Unlikely to Ease Credit Grip
   ---
   Despite Recent Indications
   Of a Slowing Economy,
   Inflation Remains Target
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Despite signs of a stagnant economy, Federal
Reserve officials appear to have no intention now of cutting
short-term interest rates.
   Interviews with a number of top Fed officials, some
speaking for the record and some insisting that their names
not be used, suggest the central bank isn't likely to ease
its grip on credit anytime soon. The comments came despite a
discouraging employment report Friday, which showed private
payrolls in the past three months expanded at their slowest
rate since the recession of 1982.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I am comfortable with policy as we sit here today," said
Fed governor Edward Kelley, describing the current policy
stance as "probably moderately restrictive."
   "I think the best analysis might be that we are
accomplishing precisely what we set out to do," agreed Roger
Guffey, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.
"The economy is slowing into the area of 2% growth."
   In the past, weak employment reports have prompted the
Federal Reserve to ease its grip on credit and allow
short-term interest rates to fall. So when the Labor
Department said Friday that private payrolls barely grew in
May, many market analysts and some Bush administration
officials began to speculate that the Fed would be moved to
ease.
   But Fed officials seem convinced that stagnant job growth
doesn't presage a recession. Economic data watched closely by
Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, such as the level of inventories
and the lead times between orders and deliveries, show no
signs of a cumulative weakness in the economy.
   Moreover, top Fed officials also seem relatively
unperturbed by recent slow growth in the money supply,
arguing that those numbers have been artificially depressed
by the government's accelerating pace in disposing of failed
savings-and-loan institutions.
   And perhaps most importantly, Fed officials worry that
their tight-money policies haven't yet had the desired effect
in heading off a gradual pickup in inflation.
   Mr. Guffey, for instance, says he still sees no signs that
the slowing economy has brought down inflation. "When you
look at the sectors, you don't get the sense that there is
anything other than a Mexican standoff," he said.
   To be sure, further signs of deterioration in the economy,
or convincing evidence that inflation has slowed, could lead
the Fed to change course. But for now, it seems clear no
policy change is in store.
   Fed policy is set by the 12-member Federal Open Market
Committee, which is made up of the seven Fed governors in
Washington and five of the 12 regional Federal Reserve Bank
presidents. That committee is scheduled to meet in Washington
July 2 and 3.
   In the past few years, the regional presidents have tended
to favor a tighter Fed policy than their colleagues in
Washington. Cleveland Fed President Lee Hoskins, for
instance, has been the most consistent anti-inflation hawk.
And in an interview, he said the employment numbers hadn't
changed his views. "We shouldn't react to short-term
numbers," he said. "There is a lot of noise in the economic
numbers that come out, and our ability to forecast is quite
weak."
   But for now, Fed Chairman Greenspan, Mr. Kelley and other
members of the Fed's board in Washington also appear willing
to keep their current relatively tight grip on credit. Mr.
Kelley noted there is "always the possibility" the economy
could slip into recession, but said "I don't see that in the
cards at this time and I don't expect it."
   ---
   Fowler W. Martin contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   Robert Bork Defends the RICOed Robert Wallach
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Few people probably remember much about Robert Wallach,
the friend of Edwin Meese who was RICOed and sentenced to
jail in connection with Wedtech Corp. One who remembers well
is former federal judge Robert Bork, who last week filed the
appeal on Mr. Wallach's behalf.
   Mr. Wallach is an unlikely source for Mr. Bork's
attentions. He is a real-life San Francisco Democrat and
former plaintiff's personal injury lawyer. His idiosyncracies
include styling his name e. robert wallach. He became famous
for sending unsolicited liberal advice in literally thousands
of memos to his old law-school friend and then-Attorney
General Meese.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That Mr. Bork took on Mr. Wallach's case -- and for what
the now-broke Mr. Wallach says is on a no-fee basis --
illustrates the new definition of a civil libertarian: a
conservative who's seen RICO in action. Mr. Bork's 101-page
brief gives federal appeals judges plenty of reasons to pluck
the Wallach feather off the cap of former prosecutor Rudolph
Giuliani when they hear the case, probably in the fall.
   Mr. Wallach volunteered his legal services to Wedtech in
1981 after learning about this minority-owned business
thriving in the difficult worlds of the Bronx and Pentagon
procurement. The defense firm, which became the largest
employer in the borough thanks to federal minority set-aside
contracts, seemed to be a marvel. It turned out to be a
fraud.
   Mr. Wallach didn't know it, but Wedtech executives Mario
Marino and Anthony Guariglia bribed politicians, including
Reps. Mario Biaggi and Robert Garcia, who were convicted and
resigned from Congress. The Wedtech officers also looted
millions from the firm. But partly in exchange for testifying
against Mr. Wallach, Messrs. Marino and Guariglia plea
bargained sweetheart sentences. Mr. Marino got 18 months in
jail, and Mr. Guariglia got five months in a halfway house --
even after prosecutors admitted he had committed perjury in
Mr. Wallach's trial (see related article: Bork: `A Trial That
Cannot Be Countenanced' -- WSJ June 6, 1990).
   In contrast, federal District Court Judge Richard Owen
gave Mr. Wallach six years in jail. What were Mr. Wallach's
crimes? First, what they were not. "Wallach did not cause
Wedtech to suffer any pecuniary loss," Mr. Bork wrote.
"Indeed, the government conceded that his work, the
performance of which was indisputably legal, was `worth
millions and millions and millions of dollars to Wedtech.'"
Even a congressional report on Wedtech cleared Mr. Wallach of
any legal wrongdoing.
   But RICO means never having to prove a real crime. In
1988, the jury found Mr. Wallach guilty of a new RICO:
mailing allegedly misleading legal bills.
   Here's what happened. In 1983, Mr. Wallach began to be
paid for his work for Wedtech, which included some 200 legal
memos. Mr. Wallach sent a letter to Wedtech officers
acknowledging payment for work on Wedtech's stock offering.
The supposed crime was that the letter failed to mention his
lobbying of Mr. Meese on behalf of Wedtech. Prosecutors
admitted that the lobbying -- which Mr. Wallach denies --
would have been perfectly legal. It was the alleged
incompleteness of the legal bill that made it racketeering.
   Under this view of RICO, the defrauded parties were
Wedtech shareholders. RICO vagaries aside, basic corporate
law says that control of expenses such as legal bills is by
corporate directors, not shareholders. Mr. Bork argues that
since no Wedtech director was defrauded, there was no crime.
   The other racketeering act was based on a second letter
acknowledging a fee for Mr. Wallach's legal services.
Prosecution witnesses Marino and Guariglia said this actually
was a pre-payment for lobbying Mr. Wallach would do once he
had taken a Justice Department job. But Mr. Wallach denies
any such quid pro quo; there was no evidence he was ever
offered any such post; and the conflict-of-interest law
applies only to people who at some point actually hold
federal office.
   Indeed, it's hard to credit the prosecution case as a
serious legal argument. The 8,000-page trial transcript
suggests something else was going on. Mr. Wallach's supposed
crimes had nothing to do with Mr. Meese and they had
everything to do with Mr. Meese. That is, the indictment did
not allege any criminal behavior between Mr. Wallach and Mr.
Meese, yet prosecutors used Mr. Meese to win a conviction.
   The true flavor of the case can be gleaned from the
following part of the prosecutor's summary to the New York
City jury:
   "We had a president for eight years named Ronald Reagan
and you know Ronald Reagan. He was an actor from Hollywood.
He parlayed his Hollywood contacts into political contacts in
California. Eventually he became the governor of that state
and then ultimately he became president of the U.S. and when
he became president of the U.S. he brought to the White House
all of his buddies from California. One of those buddies was
a man named Edwin Meese III. Edwin Meese III had a best
friend and his name was Robert Wallach."
   Prosecutors called Mr. Meese "corrupt" and his
relationship with Mr. Wallach "improper, unethical and
wrong." These were smears with a purpose. "Wallach was not
being tried for any allegations of illegal dealings with
Edwin Meese," Mr. Bork wrote, "yet major parts of the
government's closing arguments were devoted to claims that
there was a corrupt relationship." These included issues as
far afield as a proposed pipeline to the Gulf of Aqaba in the
Mideast and independent counsel and ethics reports on Mr.
Meese. Prosecutors told the jury to convict for some
appearance of an impropriety. Or, as Mr. Bork put it more
subtly, "on a charge not within the scope of the indictment."
   I've had more than a half dozen meetings with Mr. Wallach
since his conviction. His sunny disposition does make him
seem more "quixotic" -- his preferred self-description --
than anything else. He was stunningly naive about Wedtech,
but he wasn't the one who pillaged the firm, bribed
congressmen or confessed to perjury. He doesn't think he got
a fair trial. Probably no fair trial was possible once
prosecutors decided to use RICO.
   Mr. Wallach remains a busy memo writer. In one not long
ago he wrote me this "j'accuse":
   "What happened to me is a dire and really unforgivable
commentary on what has happened to both the world of the
media and the criminal justice system. You may think that
overbroad, but I refer not only to myself but to multiple
illustrations of lives destroyed. Due process is the true
heart of a viable democracy and it is now in jeopardy, as it
has been often in the past. There have been victims. Now the
question is, from where will the redress come?"
   This is classic Wallach -- emotional, maybe somewhat
egotistical, to some even obnoxious. But Mr. Wallach's plea
reflects genuine agony. He asks the right question, the one
about redress, the one that only appeals judges can answer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CANNY HWP
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   A `Third World' Car
   Is Stuck in First Gear
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   TO DO GOOD, a young designer is finding he first has to do
well.
   Daniel Sturges designed an inexpensive, lightweight,
three-wheeled car that he hoped would give Third World people
and cargo easy mobility. But it turned out that the Third
World was less interested in Mr. Sturges' "China Car" than in
big, expensive American autos.
   "Third World people want Western stuff," says Mr. Sturges,
a 26-year-old veteran of the design shops at Ford and GM.
   So Mr. Sturges and his Caleb Inc. of Boulder, Colo.,
shifted their focus to the U.S. Now he envisions his renamed
"Platform Vehicle" puttering around campuses, retirement
communities and between home and commuter stations. "They can
make the car in the Third World for the U.S. market," he
says. "And if it's accepted in the U.S., the Third World will
like it, too."
   To keep the weight under 300 pounds and the price at about
$2,000, the Platform Vehicle would be made largely of
plastic. The basic platform could be fitted with options such
as a roof, cab or cargo floor. And it would cruise at about
30 miles an hour.
                                                                                                       

   Canon Has Had Its Fill
   Of Reused Cartridges
                                                                                                       

   IN 1982, CANON INC. developed a cartridge for its desktop
copiers, fax machines and laser printers. The cartridge
neatly contains the photosensitive drum, developer unit and
toner powder, which acts like ink. When the toner is used up,
the customer simply throws away the old cartridge and inserts
a new one.
   That is, unless he inserts a refilled one -- to Canon's
dismay.
   Not long after the design came to market, entrepreneurs
discovered that they could refill, or "recharge," the old
cartridges with new toner and sell them again, for as little
as $50, instead of the $80 to $125 charged for new
cartridges. Refilling and selling used Canon cartridges has
become a $44 million business, according to Cheryle White,
president of the fledgling Association of Professional
Cartridge Recyclers.
   Recyclers claim that Canon, alarmed by the loss of
potential cartridge sales, has put extra abrasives in its
toner, aiming to destroy the drum after one use. A spokesman
for Canon, which expects to sell nine million cartridges this
year, calls the charge "totally incorrect."
   Nevertheless, Canon and its allies are fighting back.
Hewlett-Packard Co., which uses Canon cartridges in its laser
printers, warns that anyone who uses refilled toner may void
the warranty. Responding to environmental criticism about the
product's disposability, Canon and Hewlett-Packard have just
announced a plan to collect spent cartridges and use them to
make new ones. For each cartridge turned in, they say they
will donate $1 to environmental causes.
   Refillers are unimpressed. "They're just trying to get
cartridges off the market to discourage recharging," Ms.
White says.
                                                                                                       

   Hot on the Tail
   Of Mobile Doghouses
                                                                                                       

   IF ROVER IS a roamer, now his woof can go with him.
   New York's Cooper-Hewitt Museum and Guiding Eyes for the
Blind Inc., a guide dog training school, asked architects and
others to design innovative doghouses. Those who responded
produced doghouses out of a junked TV set, dog biscuits,
corrugated paper and other odd materials.
   Nicholas Goldsmith of F.T.L. Associates in New York
contributed a doghouse consisting of plywood frames with
waterproof fabric strung between. The frames are hinged at
the bottom so the doghouse can fold flat. A strap permits Mr.
Nicholas' "Puptent" to be carried over the shoulder.
   Another portable doghouse was submitted by Christopher
Delaney and Andrea Cochran of San Francisco. Built on the
principles of origami, it consists of galvanized steel, with
a floor of aluminum covered with Astroturf. When four pins
are pulled, it flattens and can be carried with a handle.
   Both portable doghouses weigh about 40 pounds, too much,
the designers concede, for easy carrying. Lighter materials
-- aluminum, plastic, waterproof cardboard -- could cut the
weight in half, they say.
   "The Doghouse" exhibition, with 24 canine residences, will
be at the Cooper-Hewitt from Friday until Oct. 14.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   THE CORPORATE Design Foundation and Interiors magazine
have given their second annual Corporate America Design
Awards to Paul Cook, CEO of Raychem Corp.; J. Irwin Miller,
former chairman of Cummins Engine Co.; and Gordon Segal,
president of Crate &amp; Barrel. . . . Step on it: Interdome Inc.
of Los Angeles offers a sheepskin pad that sticks to the car
floor under the foot pedals, to prevent high heels from
getting scuffed.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   HEWLETT-PACKARD Co. says use of a non-Hewlett toner in its
laser printers does not, by itself, affect the overall
warranty on the printer. "However," the company says, "if an
HP LaserJet failure or damage is found to be directly
attributable to the use of a non-Hewlett toner cartridge,
Hewlett will not repair the printer free-of-charge."
Wednesday's Form + Function column said Hewlett "warns that
anyone who uses refilled toner may void the warranty."
   (WSJ June 12, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Sales of Cars and Light Trucks Fell
   3.3% in Late May From a Year Earlier
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   C F GM NSANY J.MZD TOYOY SBRU VOLVY G.BMW HMC J.MOT G.VOW
J.IZM C.HYU G.MAH J.SUZ S.SAA G.AUD J.DHM G.POR F.PEU I.ALR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- U.S. auto sales stayed in the doldrums in May,
with sales of domestically built cars and light trucks
falling 3.3% in the last 10 days of the month.
   But auto makers dismissed the possibility that lagging
sales will prompt huge discounts at the end of the 1990 model
year in September. The reason: Each of the Big Three auto
makers have relatively modest supplies of unsold cars on
dealer and factory lots.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We believe that our lower inventory position will signal
to consumers that GM is not planning a costly model-year-end
sale," said James B. Fitzpatrick, vice president for General
Motors Corp.'s marketing and product planning staff.
   Overall, Americans bought 459, 109 cars and light trucks
in the nine selling days of the May 21-30 period. In the
eight selling days a year earlier, sales totaled 422,134
vehicles. The percentage change is based on the daily sales
rate.
   The late-May car sales translated into a seasonally
adjusted annual selling rate of 7.3 million cars, according
to a Commerce Department formula. That compares with a 7.8
million-car rate a year earlier, and it left May with a 6.7
million-car rate.
   Although sales have been sluggish since February, the Big
Three auto makers have compensated by scaling back
production. Now, Chrysler Corp. has a 55-day supply of cars,
GM has a 59-day supply and Ford Motor Co. has a 68-day
supply. Auto makers usually prefer to keep supplies at about
a 65-day to-70-day level.
   The relatively lean stocks of many models have emboldened
auto makers to start trimming sales incentives. David Healy,
an analyst with Barclays BZW investment banking group,
estimated that discounts offered on new cars decreased by an
average of $100 to $200 a car in May to about $900.
   Dealers, however, are still wary of getting stuck with
unsold vehicles late in the model year, and are holding back
on ordering substantial numbers of new vehicles from the
factories. As a result, it remains unclear whether auto
makers, particularly the Big Three, can cut discounts back
much further this summer and fall.
   That may be especially true in the face of continued
strong sales by Japanese auto makers, which increased their
share of the U.S. passenger car market to 30% in May compared
with 24% a year earlier. Japanese brands had a 28% share for
the first five months of this year.
   Some Japanese auto makers have taken advantage of the
weaker yen by sweetening the incentives they're offering on
their cars and trucks in the U.S.
   Toyota Motor Corp. made the strongest gains in May,
increasing its car and truck sales 31.3% and boosting its
U.S. car-market share to 9.8% from 6.1% in May 1989.
   Honda Motor Co. also increased its share of the car market
-- to 9.5% from 8.5% -- even though its sales nudged up only
slightly.
   Chrysler's combined car and truck sales fell 16.9% in May
-- the most of the Big Three. Chrysler's share of the U.S.
car market dropped to 9.7% from 10.9% a year earlier. Ford
also continued to lose ground as its combined car and truck
sales for May were off 14%. Ford's share of the passenger car
market slumped to 18.8% in May compared with 21.5% a year
earlier.
   One weak spot for Ford is the restyled 1991 Ford Escort
model, which is getting off to a slower-than-expected start,
according to Ford dealers. Combined sales of the new
subcompact and the old model it's replacing fell 17.2% to
24,867 cars in May. Dealers said a big problem for the new
Escort is that it doesn't come with any discount, while many
rival Japanese and domestic models do. Ford is also offering
rebates on the discontinued Escort models.
   On the plus side, Ford saw a big increase in sales of its
new Ford Explorer and the discontinued Bronco II compact
sport utility vehicles; production of the Bronco II has been
discontinued.
   The Explorer and Bronco II recorded a 67.8% increase to
15,706 vehicles. They seem to have taken a bite out of
Chrysler's rival Jeep Cherokee and Wagoneer. Sales of those
models declined 20.1% in May.
   GM, meanwhile, benefited from strong sales of its Geo line
of Japanese cars. In May, GM domestic car sales fell 13.6%,
but its imported cars -- primarily the Geo vehicles sold
through Chevrolet dealersjumped 10.8%. Still, GM's car-market
share slipped to 35.5% in May from 37% a year earlier.
   ---
                   AUTO SALES STATISTICS
                                                                                                       

            Percentage of Total U.S. Car Market
                                                                                                       

                              May     May    5 mos  5 mos
 Make                         1990    1989   1990   1989
                                                                                                       

 General Motors-a ........... 35.5    37.0   35.6   35.7
 Ford-a ..................... 18.8    21.5   21.0   22.8
 Chrysler-a .................  9.7    10.9    8.9   10.7

 Honda-a ....................  9.5     8.5    8.6    7.7
 Nissan-a ...................  4.7     4.7    4.7    5.0
 Mazda-a ....................  2.8     2.4    2.9    2.5
 Hyundai ....................  1.5     1.7    1.4    2.0
 Mitsubishi-a ...............  1.7     1.2    2.0    1.0
 Subaru-a ...................  0.8     1.0    1.0    1.4
 Other Imports ..............  5.1     4.8    4.9    4.9
 Total Domestic ............. 72.5    73.3   72.9   72.8
 Total Imported ............. 27.5    26.7   27.1   27.2
                                                                                                       

   a-Includes imported and domestically made models.
   ---
              TOTAL MONTH AUTO SALES FOR MAY
                                                                                                       

          RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                   1990    1989    %Chg.    1990     1989
                   May.    May.    Month   To Date  To Date
                                                                                                       

 General Motors  468,727  518,406 -  9.6 2,146,160 2,206,816
   Domestc car   295,605  342,240 - 13.6 1,355,770 1,443,399
   Import car     18,272   16,489 + 10.8    81,985    68,039
     Total car   313,877  358,729 - 12.5 1,437,755 1,511,438
   Domestc trk   154,773  158,900 -  2.6   707,791   691,677
   Import trk         77      777 - 90.1       614     3,701
     Total trk   154,850  159,677 -  3.0   708,405   695,378
                                                                                                       

 Ford            295,054  343,276 - 14.0 1,442,802 1,572,427
   Domestc car   161,845  201,772 - 19.8   819,815   928,068
   Import car      4,659    6,350 - 26.6    28,373    35,411
     Total car   166,504  208,122 - 20.0   848,188   963,479
   Domestc trk   128,550  135,154 -  4.9   594,614   608,948
                                                                                                       

 Chrysler        168,080  202,161 - 16.9   747,428   877,583
   Domestc car    79,742   95,524 - 16.5   333,186   403,646
   Import car      5,738    9,879 - 41.9    26,725    49,278
     Total car    85,480  105,403 - 18.9   359,911   452,924
   Domestc trk    81,551   93,044 - 12.4   380,697   408,714
   Import trk      1,049    3,714 - 71.8     6,820    15,945
     Total trk    82,600   96,758 - 14.6   387,517   424,659
                                                                                                       

 Toyota          104,295   79,456 + 31.3   437,784   350,117
   Domestc car    37,889   14,964 +153.2   148,739    69,499
   Import car     48,937   44,084 + 11.0   214,672   189,423
     Total car    86,826   59,048 + 47.0   363,411   258,922
   Import trk     17,469   20,408 - 14.4    74,373    91,195
                                                                                                       

 Honda            84,203   82,327 +  2.3   347,385   325,060
   Domestc car    46,837   42,710 +  9.7   191,066   167,388
   Import car     37,366   39,617 -  5.7   156,319   157,672
                                                                                                       

 Nissan           54,515   54,351 +  0.3   260,390   278,498
   Domestc car     8,527    6,757 + 26.2    39,173    41,072
   Import car     32,925   38,585 - 14.7   150,793   171,258
     Total car    41,452   45,342 -  8.6   189,966   212,330
   Domestc trk    10,155    7,513 + 35.2    57,048    54,747

     Total trk    13,063    9,009 + 45.0    70,424    66,168
                                                                                                       

 Mazda            35,949   30,509 + 17.8   152,726   142,215
   Domestc car     5,308    3,908 + 35.8    33,227    18,670
   Import car     19,652   19,655    0.0    84,464    87,788
     Total car    24,960   23,563 +  5.9   117,691   106,458
   Import trk     10,989    6,946 + 58.2    35,035    35,757
                                                                                                       

 Hyundai-b        13,322   16,254 - 18.0    58,144    82,753
                                                                                                       

 Mitsubishi       18,386   14,971 + 22.8    92,580    55,281
   Domestc car     4,972    2,603 + 91.0    22,564     8,420
   Import car     10,434    9,274 + 12.5    56,240    33,864
     Total car    15,406   11,877 + 29.7    78,804    42,284
   Import trk      2,980    3,094 -  3.7    13,776    12,997
                                                                                                       

 Subaru            7,128   10,181 - 30.0    41,112    60,489
   Domestc car       579        0            1,441         0
   Import car      6,549   10,181 - 35.7    39,671    60,489
                                                                                                       

 Volkswagen       14,999   15,188 -  1.2    56,309    57,171
   Import car     14,188   14,601 -  2.8    53,380    55,105
   Import trk        811      587 + 38.2     2,929     2,066
                                                                                                       

 Isuzu            10,255    9,993 +  2.6    46,097    45,691
   Import car        335    1,975 - 83.0     1,465     8,044
   Domestic trk    1,916        0            4,474         0
   Import trk      8,004    8,018 -  0.2    40,158    37,647
     Total trk     9,920    8,018 + 23.7    44,632    37,647
                                                                                                       

 Volvo-b           9,751    9,150 +  6.6    39,956    43,148
                                                                                                       

 Mercedes-b        6,370    6,021 +  5.8    30,110    28,920
                                                                                                       

 BMW-b             5,662    5,585 +  1.4    25,882    28,821
                                                                                                       

 Suzuki            1,938    2,811 - 31.1     9,575    13,979
   Import car        515      460 + 12.0     2,568     2,460
   Import trk      1,423    2,351 - 39.5     7,007    11,519
                                                                                                       

 Saab-b            1,909    3,164 - 39.7    10,390    13,713
                                                                                                       

 Audi-b            2,050    1,718 + 19.3     8,501     7,393
                                                                                                       

 Jaguar-b          1,575    1,650 -  4.5     7,918     7,477
                                                                                                       

 Daihatsu-b        1,176    1,227 -  4.2     7,017     5,622
   Import car        721    1,227 - 41.2     5,180     5,622
   Import trk        455        0            1,837         0
                                                                                                       

 Yugo-b              608      936 - 35.0     3,192     4,267
                                                                                                       

 Porsche-b           913    1,003 -  9.0     4,287     3,598
                                                                                                       

 Sterling-b          320      653 - 51.0     2,025     2,788
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 Range Rover-c       367      391 -  6.1     1,724     1,990
                                                                                                       

 Alfa Romeo-b        148      223 - 33.6       904     1,462
                                                                                                       

 Total cars      884,663  969,782 -  8.8 4,040,135 4,231,464
   Domestic      641,304  710,478 -  9.7 2,944,981 3,080,162
   Import        243,359  259,304 -  6.1 1,095,154 1,151,302
 Total trucks    423,477  442,393 -  4.3 1,942,273 1,988,324
   Domestic      376,945  394,611 -  4.5 1,744,624 1,764,086
   Import         46,532   47,782 -  2.6   197,649   224,238
                                                                                                       

 Total vehicles
              1,308,140 1,412,175 -  7.4 5,982,408 6,219,788
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include all vehicle sales reported in the period
except tourist-delivery sales of imported models.
   b-Imported cars only.
   c-Imported trucks only.
   e-Estimated.
   Note: There were 26 selling days in the most recent month
and 26 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily
sales rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Cable Industry Indicates It
   Will Accept Reregulation Bill
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In a compromise that could break the logjam
over cable TV legislation, the cable industry indicated it
would accept a proposed Senate bill to reregulate monthly
rates for basic service and let federal regulators limit the
size and activities of large operators.
   The new draft legislation, which calls for regulation of
rates for a basic tier of service consisting of broadcast
stations, is to be introduced tomorrow at a Senate Commerce
Committee session. The legislation is tougher than a proposal
circulated in the House by Chairman John Dingell (D., Mich.)
of the Energy and Commerce Committee, but is less restrictive
than earlier Senate measures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   James Mooney, head of the National Cable Television
Association, said the industry has "serious problems" with
the new draft, but signaled that his organization wouldn't
oppose the measure. The proposal, he said, "clearly is less
onerous than the previous staff draft. That being the case,
we will focus on opposing adverse amendments to it."
   Under the proposal, the Federal Communications Commission
would be required to monitor monthly rates for special cable
channels, and could reverse abusive rate increases. The FCC
would also devise rules for limiting horizontal and vertical
integration of large cable operators. In addition, it
requires cable companies to provide programming to
competitors, such as satellite or wireless cable services.
   While the measure is aimed at encouraging competition, it
wouldn't allow telephone companies to enter the cable
business. Phone companies, however, have been lobbying
intensely for the opportunity, and Sen. Conrad Burns (R.,
Mont.), is planning to introduce an amendment to let phone
companies provide cable service within their franchise
territories. The amendment would substantially reverse the
1984 Cable Act ban on such activity.
   In the House, Rep. Edward Markey (D., Mass.), chairman of
the telecommunications subcommittee, began circulating draft
cable legislation and has set a markup for June 25. Like the
Senate measure, the Markey plan also calls for reregulating a
basic tier of broadcast stations, establishing
customer-service standards and encouraging competition by
setting up guidelines for satellite or wireless cable rivals
to obtain cable programming.
   For the past year, lawmakers have been under pressure from
cable subscribers to rein in rates, which have risen more
than 100% in many cities since they were largely deregulated
in 1987. But even if both the Senate Commerce Committee and
the House telecommunications panel pass legislation this
month, there is still a good chance that proponents of
reregulation will run out of time before the session ends,
preventing lawmakers from bringing home a trophy by November.
A crowded agenda could bog down lawmakers in phone-company or
competition issues that the industry is certain to fight.
   Legislative efforts could be blunted by the FCC, which is
getting ready to decide whether to give municipalities more
say over rates and will recommend a package of legislative
changes in July.
   The Bush administration is preparing to express strong
opposition to reregulation in a letter from Commerce
Secretary Robert Mosbacher and James Rill, head of the
Justice Department's Antitrust Division. They caution
lawmakers that legislation already introduced goes too far.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Nycor Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NYCO
</CO>
<LP>
   NYCOR Inc. (Peapack, N.J.) -- Robert E. Logan Jr. was
named vice president of finance and chief financial officer
of this acquisition company. Mr. Logan, previously partner
and vice president at Bard Associates Inc., a closely held
venture capital and money management company in Chicago,
succeeds Robert L. Laurent Jr. Mr. Laurent became chief
financial officer of Fedders Corp., the Peapack, N.J.,
manufacturer of room air conditioners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bork: `A Trial That Cannot Be Countenanced'
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   These are excerpts from the appeal Robert Bork filed on
behalf of Robert Wallach, who was convicted for activities
relating to Wedtech. A related "Rule of Law" column appears
today (see: "Rule of Law: Robert Bork Defends the RICOed
Robert Wallach" -- WSJ June 6, 1990).
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law: RICO
is constitutionally intolerable. The Due Process Clause of
the Fifth Amendment forbids Congress from enacting penal
statutes that are so vague and indefinite as to deprive a
person of ordinary intelligence of notice of the prohibited
conduct, and to afford unfettered discretion to prosecutors.
As Wallach's prosecution demonstrates, RICO grants
essentially unbridled discretion to judges and juries, and
affords no notice of what conduct it prohibits.
   The key statutory elements -- the existence of an
"enterprise" and . . . "pattern of racketeering" -- have no
limiting definition in the statute. Nor does either of these
statutory terms provide any notice of what is actually
forbidden.
   In the indictment here, the government listed five
payments that Wallach received from Wedtech. Yet he was
convicted for alleged misconduct with respect to only two of
those payments, made over a year apart, in compensation for
two entirely different undertakings. It is impossible to see
how they could be said to constitute any kind of "pattern" at
all. The two payments -- the bare minimum needed to establish
a "pattern of racketeering" -- appear to be related only
because they both involve Wallach and Wedtech, who were
otherwise involved in a legitimate business relationship.
   This RICO prosecution well illustrates the constitutional
defects of that statute. No more than any judge of the
federal court system or any jury member, Wallach could not
possibly be expected to understand that Wedtech was a
"racketeering enterprise" or that two letters about different
fees for different legal services constituted a "pattern of
racketeering activity." The implications of Wallach's
conviction for other lawyers who sometimes bill clients as
their clients ask to be billed are extremely ominous. Either
the client or the law firm may be the "enterprise" and any
two fee statements may be the "pattern."
                                                                                                       

   Avital Sharansky's non-testimony: In a sworn offer of
proof given from the witness stand outside of the jury's
presence, Mrs. Sharansky testified that she met Wallach in
1982; that she had met with him many times in her efforts to
gain her husband {Natan}'s release from a Soviet
concentration camp; that without any publicity Wallach had
contacted Henry Kissinger, Robert McFarlane, Edwin Meese and
members of Congress to plead her husband's case. The
government opposed Mrs. Sharansky's testimony on the ground
that it would center on a specific instance of conduct, but
at one point stated its true objection to her taking the
stand: "{T}his witness's testimony . . . will be very
powerful to the jury in a way that the testimony of other
character witnesses was not."
   Despite being told that Mrs. Sharansky had to return to
her dying mother in Israel that night, the district court
refused to rule on the admissibility of her testimony until
the next day. . . . Judge Learned Hand warned that a trial
judge "must not take on the role of a partisan." Again and
again, however, the district court permitted the government
to try Wallach with irrelevant, but plainly prejudicial
evidence. Just as consistently, the court refused to allow
Wallach to defend himself against the government's onslaught
of inadmissible evidence, and effectively excluded some of
Wallach's most powerful evidence. Taken separately, each of
these rulings would require reversal. Taken together, they
produced a trial that cannot be countenanced.
                                                                                                       

   A key prosecution witness's perjury: The government knew
or should have known that {Wedtech officer Anthony} Guariglia
perjured himself. After Guariglia testified that he stopped
gambling in the summer of 1988, he was forced to admit on
cross-examination that he had signed gambling markers in the
fall of 1988 in Atlantic City.
   Thus, the government was told Guariglia had lied about his
gambling and handed the records that proved it. {Assistant
U.S. Attorney} Baruch Weiss protested that he had questioned
Guariglia extensively about the Atlantic City incident, and
Guariglia "firmly denied" gambling then or at any other time
subsequent to the summer of 1988. In light of Guariglia's
history of lying -- certainly no secret to the government --
and the Tropicana's records, the government must have known
that Guariglia's denial of gambling was perjury. As the
district court recognized, reversal is "virtually automatic"
if the government knowingly uses perjured testimony. . . . In
January 1990, after Wallach's trial, the government admitted
that Guariglia perjured himself.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Direct Connect International
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS KIDZ
</CO>
<LP>
   DIRECT CONNECT INTERNATIONAL (Midland Park, N.J.) --
Robert E. Bewighouse was named senior vice president of sales
at this toy maker with exclusive licenses for the Muppets
products of the late Jim Henson. Mr. Bewighouse formerly was
vice president of sales for Simplicity Pattern Co., a
subsidiary of Simplicity Holdings Inc., New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Royal International Meeting
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RIO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Royal International Optical Corp. said it
scheduled a special meeting for June 28 to allow shareholders
to vote on its proposed merger with U.S. Vision Inc.
   Under the offer, U.S. Vision will acquire 80% of Royal's
stock for $12.50 a share in cash. The remaining shares will
be exchanged for stock in the merged company, which will
operate under Royal International's name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Royal closed at $10.25, up 12.5 cents.
   U.S. Vision is closely held. Both Royal and U.S. Vision,
based in Glendora, N.J., are optical retailers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Agency Rejects
   U S West's Plan
   For Soviet Network
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST USW J.KDD BTY
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Commerce Department, citing national
security concerns, rejected a U S West Inc. plan to build a
fiber-optic cable across the Soviet Union.
   U S West said it received a letter from the department's
bureau of export licensing saying it would oppose export by
any country of sophisticated telecommunications technology to
the Soviets. Specifically, it cited equipment with
transmission speeds of 140-megabits-per-second or higher. The
U S West fiber project's speed would be 565 megabits per
second, three times slower than state-of-the-art
telecommunications technology in use in the U.S. today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U S West said it is pursuing a 30-day review, and is
concerned that its partners in the trans-Soviet project or
other foreign companies that have fiber-optic technology
could go forward on their own. The department, however,
expressed confidence that no country would ship such gear
without U.S. approval.
   The Commerce Department rejection comes on the eve of the
Paris meeting of the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral
Security Controls, the 17-nation committee that sets
guidelines on what technologies can be shipped to the Soviet
Union and other communist countries.
   Earlier this month, the U.S. signaled that it would push
to allow exports of certain telecommunications equipment to
Eastern Europe, a move applauded by Western
telecommunications companies, which generally view Eastern
Europe and the Soviet Union as sizable, if not rich, markets.
Phone companies and equipment makers are eager to get their
foot in the door, anticipating a more robust market for phone
equipment and service as more Western companies set up
business in the Soviet bloc.
   Meantime, the Soviet Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications, concerned about its outmoded
communications networks, has encouraged Western projects. The
U S West fiber pipeline was to have two parts: a fiber link
across Siberia connecting Europe and the Pacific Rim, and an
intra-U.S.S.R. network. U S West was joined in the Soviet
fiber project by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
as well as Kokusai Denshin Denwa of Japan, Societa
Finanziaria Telefonica of Italy, British Telecommunications
PLC, and other phone companies in Australia, Denmark and West
Germany.
   In a recent interview, U S West Chairman Jack MacAllister
said the project had enthusiastic support within the Soviet
Union and among businesses in Europe and the Pacific Rim.
Laird Walker, who heads the company's Washington office, said
yesterday that the project "represents an important
telecommunications link that will further open Soviet society
and enhance world communications." The company apparently
faces an uphill battle convincing the Commerce Department of
that.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   New York Port Authority's Chief to Quit
   And Take Top Posts at GE Insurer Unit
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GE
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stephen Berger, who began a massive facelift
of the New York region's airports, river crossings and cargo
docks, said he would resign as executive director of the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey next month.
   Mr. Berger said he was leaving the job he has held since
October 1985 to become president and chief executive officer
of Financial Guaranty Insurance Co., a subsidiary of General
Electric Capital Corp., itself a unit of Fairfield,
Conn-based General Electric Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Local transportation officials praised Mr. Berger, 50
years old, for upgrading the Port Authority's basic
transportation facilities and streamlining its management
structure. Mr. Berger "refocused the Port Authority on its
basic businesses of airports, Hudson River crossings and
maritime terminals," said Tom Downs, New Jersey's
Transportation Commissioner. "He put capital back into those
facilities rather than let them be simply cash cows."
   Port Authority officials said they were surprised by Mr.
Berger's decision to leave. Richard Leone, the Port
Authority's chairman, said he expects it will be a matter of
weeks before Mr. Berger's successor is named.
   Mr. Berger said he has received job offers in recent years
but the one from Financial Guaranty Insurance, an insurer of
municipal bonds and other securities, was "very hard for me
to turn down." Although he declined to specify his salary at
Financial Guaranty, it is believed to be substantially higher
than his $170,000-a-year Port Authority salary.
   Mr. Berger will succeed Gerald L. Friedman as chief
executive officer and president of Financial Guaranty. Mr.
Friedman, 53, a co-founder of the company, retains his
position as chairman. The company, which was founded in late
1983, became a GE subsidiary through General Electric Capital
last year. A Financial Guaranty spokesman said Mr. Berger
will be responsible for the company's municipal finance
operations as well as its expansion into the European market
for nonmunicipal debt instruments.
   Prior to joining the Port Authority, Mr. Berger worked in
the private sector as an investment banker with Odyssey
Partners and director of corporate development for
Oppenheimer &amp; Co. In the mid-1970s, Mr. Berger was executive
director of the state agency that designed a financial plan
enabling New York City to regain its credit standing during
its worst fiscal crisis.
   The $6 billion rebuilding program launched by Mr. Berger
has included money to upgrade the Port Authority's three
major airports, its rail system linking New York and New
Jersey and its harbor facilities. Under Mr. Berger the Port
Authority entered into a joint venture with a private firm to
restore commuter ferries across the Hudson River.
   He struck an agreement with ship companies and dockside
labor to lower the cost of shipping cargo through New York,
stemming a decline in port cargo. Mr. Berger has tried to
streamline the Port Authority's bureaucracy, taking out
layers of management.
   But many problems face Mr. Berger's successor. A slowdown
in New York's regional economy after a burst of prosperity in
the 1980s could undermine further capital spending on the
authority's facilities. Indeed, Mr. Berger's plan for another
boost in trans-Hudson bridge and tunnel tolls and rail fares
was turned down last year by the governors of New York and
New Jersey. As a result, the Port Authority deferred $300
million in capital expenditures this year. And its plans to
build a central terminal and people-mover shuttle at John F.
Kennedy Airport were postponed because of a cool reception
from airlines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kansas City Southern Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KSU DSTS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Kansas City Southern Industries Inc.
said it raised its tender offer for the 12.9% of DST Systems
Inc. that it doesn't already own to $15.85 a share, from $14.
   Kansas City Southern, a railroad and financial services
data-processing concern, already owns 16.6 DST million
shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the offer is valued at about $39 million
for the remaining roughly 2.5 million shares of DST.
   DST is a financial services company based in Kansas City.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Shevardnadze
   Makes Surprise
   Arms Proposal
   ---
   Soviets to Unilaterally Pull
   Some Nuclear Weapons
   From Central Europe
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   COPENHAGEN -- Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze,
surprising the U.S. two days after the Washington superpower
summit, said Moscow unilaterally would remove a significant
number of its nuclear weapons from Central Europe.
   Despite the talk about "rapport" during last week's
U.S.-Soviet meeting, yesterday's move appeared to be timed to
give Moscow a propaganda edge just weeks before the U.S. and
its allies plan to meet to discuss the future of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization. The Soviets regularly have
pushed for a nuclear-free Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, Mr. Shevardnadze said he and Secretary of State
James Baker, who met privately for two hours last night, made
some progress on other issues -- including the thorny
questions of German unification and the reshaping of
post-Cold War Europe. "The areas of mutual understanding on
those complex issues seem to be gradually broadening," Mr.
Shevardnadze said.
   In a speech to a human-rights conference held by the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, Mr.
Shevardnadze said the Soviet Union would remove the nuclear
weapons "to create favorable conditions" for U.S.-Soviet
negotiations on short-range nuclear weapons. Those talks
could begin later this year. He said the weaponry the Soviets
would eliminate unilaterally includes 1,500 nuclear warheads,
more than 250 atomic artillery pieces, 60 tactical missile
launchers and 3,200 "atomic guns." The meaning of the latter
reference wasn't immediately clear.
   Mr. Baker, who also was here for the human-rights meeting,
hinted that Moscow was making virtue of necessity. He said
the U.S. didn't know whether "these are weapons that would be
withdrawn in any event" as part of Moscow's agreement to
remove its troops from Hungary and Czechoslovakia, former
Soviet satellites. He also said the U.S. wasn't sure whether
the proposal included previously announced promises of
withdrawal.
   Later, Mr. Baker added: "This is something that we and the
NATO alliance have been calling for some time" because Moscow
has "an excess or advantage in these weapons" in Europe. As a
result, Mr. Baker said, "this is something we welcome."
   Mr. Shevardnadze insisted that the proposed withdrawals
"are new figures." But his proposal was so vague that even
the Soviet foreign ministry's spokesman was unable to explain
details.
   A spokesman for NATO called the Soviet reduction "a small
step," and there was no immediate reaction from the U.S.
Defense Department. But analysts at several private
Washington-based research institutes said the proposed Soviet
cutback in nuclear warheads was significant.
   "That's a substantial number in terms of the total number
of nuclear systems they might have in Europe," said Thomas B.
Cochran, a co-author of a handbook on the Soviet nuclear
arsenal that estimates the Russians have about 2,000 nuclear
artillery shells and 1,420 nuclear-tipped short range
missiles in Europe. Mr. Cochran, a physicist for the Natural
Resources Defense Council, noted that the West has only a
rough estimate of the size of the Soviet nuclear
artillery-shell stockpile in Central Europe.
   "Whether it's making a virtue of necessity or not, it does
seem to be a significant reduction," said Lee Feinstein,
senior analyst for the Arms Control Association.
   In Washington, there was some resentment that the Soviets
hadn't mentioned the planned unilateral cuts during the four
days of summit meetings that ended Sunday, and that they
instead sprang the proposal on Mr. Baker on the eve of a NATO
meeting. "It's certainly a surprise," said a senior
administration official, adding, "it's kind of tacky."
   Mr. Shevardnadze said the issue had been raised in working
groups during the summit. Mr. Baker said U.S. arms-control
negotiators and other diplomats who participated in the
summit had scrambled back to their notes of the summit talks
to find any Soviet warning about the plan, but "the Soviets
never got within a country mile of the subject."
   At least in part, the Soviet proposal was a response to
President Bush's announcement last month that he would scrap
plans to put new short-range nuclear missiles in Western
Europe. At the time, Mr. Bush himself was recognizing
reality; there is stiff resistance in Europe to the
modernization program.
   Mr. Bush also said in May that he won't put new nuclear
artillery shells in Western Europe. And he offered to open
talks with Moscow more quickly than previously planned on
cutting existing short-range nuclear missiles. Previously,
the U.S. had stated that it would begin these negotiations
once a conventional arms treaty is signed and implemented.
Last month, Mr. Bush said he's ready to begin the talks as
soon as the treaty is signed. NATO has roughly 2,000 nuclear
artillery shells and rockets in Europe.
   ---
   John J. Fialka in Washington contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quadrax Class B Warrants
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   QDRX
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PORTSMOUTH, R.I. -- Quadrax Corp. said it temporarily
reduced the exercise price of its outstanding redeemable
Class B common stock purchase warrants to $3 from $4. The
reduced price is effective until July 3. The warrants expire
July 7, 1992. Quadrax makes parts from advanced materials for
aerospace and defense markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   States Stepping Up
   Efforts to Limit
   Teen-Age Labor
   ----
   By Brett Pulley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Santangelo's Restaurant in Liverpool, N.Y., is truly a
family business. Sam and Sally Santangelo's eight children
all help out at the Italian eatery.
   That helps explain why Mr. Santangelo is actively opposing
proposed state legislation that would curtail the hours that
children under 18 can work. If the measure passes, the
restaurateur figures he would have to hire outside help to
work late hours. "I don't know where I'll look," he says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Across the country, small businesses that hire such
teen-agers are facing similar problems as lawmakers in a
growing number of states push child-labor legislation. The
bills are aimed at encouraging teen-age workers -- especially
those 16 and 17 years old -- to punch out earlier in hopes
that they'll spend more time doing schoolwork. Under federal
law, children 14 and 15 years old can't work more than three
hours a day and 18 hours per week, or after 7 p.m. on school
days. The federal restrictions don't apply to teens 16 and
older.
   While many states have mulled child-labor-law reform in
recent years, the issue has gained momentum from the U.S.
Labor Department's well-publicized crackdown in March against
child-labor-law abusers. Hundreds of Labor Department
investigators swept into businesses nationwide seeking
evidence of teen-agers working illegally long hours,
operating dangerous equipment and otherwise being forced to
ignore federal regulations protecting them.
   "The noise that the Department of Labor made got people
energized about doing something on the local level," says
Mark Alesse, a state lobbyist for the National Federation of
Independent Business, a small-business trade group.
   In recent weeks, legislatures in at least six states --
Florida, Hawaii, Nebraska, New York, North Carolina and Ohio
-- are considering limiting working hours for those under 18,
and Tennessee has already passed an act. Besides placing a
curfew on evening work for 16- and 17-year-olds, some states
are debating limiting the total number of hours per week
those teen-agers can work. "There's a real concern that long
work hours have an impact on children's health and their
studies," says Brenda Trolin, a staff member at the National
Conference of State Legislators.
   In response to encouragement from educators and
parent-teacher groups, other legislatures are expected to
join the bandwagon, says Ms. Trolin. "They're all starting to
talk about it. By this time next year, there will be a lot
more."
   Small businesses expect to feel the effect more than other
concerns because they tend to rely heavily on teen-age
employees. According to an NFIB study, for instance, small
businesses in New York state depend on youths under 18 for
about 20% of their employees.
   Finding a solution that would satisfy the interests of
business owners, educators, parents and children won't be
easy. Herve Juris, a professor of human-resources management
at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management,
says building a strong work ethic in children can be equally
as important as instilling good study habits. "This is
certainly not a question of whether or not kids should work,
but a question of how much they should work," Prof. Juris
says.
   Tennessee's new law, which takes effect next month, bars
most 16- and 17-year-olds from working on school nights after
10 p.m. The Tennessee law, which had been considered in
previous legislative terms, passed after legislators reached
a compromise allowing students with high grades to work after
10 p.m.
   In other states, especially those burdened with rising
high-school dropout rates, the issue has become much more
controversial. In Florida, where the low-paying service
economy depends heavily on teen-age workers and where the
dropout rate is the nation's highest, one survey found
small-business owners "evenly split" over restrictive work
hours.
   "There are a lot of mixed feelings in the small-business
community on this issue," says Bill Herle, state NFIB
director. While often depending on teen-age workers,
"small-business owners have a hard time finding skilled
labor, so they recognize the need to reduce the dropout
rate," he says.
   The proposed legislation would allow exceptions for
students with economic hardships. But opposing lawmakers
argue that the hardship exemptions, which require approval
from school administrators and parents, could prove faulty.
They contend that poor students whose families need extra
income could be kept off the payrolls.
   "Getting the school superintendent and the principal to
look over each exemption won't be easy. When students find a
job, they don't have too much time before they have to accept
it or lose the job offer," says Willie Logan, a Democratic
representative from Opa Locka, a southern Florida town.
   Even the legislation's sponsor concedes that snaring
exemption status could be elusive. "Economic hardships will
be difficult to get," says Tom Mims, a Lakeland Democrat.
   In New York, tougher battle lines are taking shape.
Organized labor, mindful that limiting teen-age hours would
force businesses to pay higher wages to lure older workers,
is lobbying hard for restricted work hours for 16- and
17-year-olds. Teachers also are backing the proposal, arguing
that many school-age children work too much and don't need
the income. Instead, teachers contend that such students are
sacrificing their school work to buy cars, designer clothes
and other luxury items.
   "These kids come to school sleepy, and they don't do their
homework," says George Mayer, a Long Island, New York, high
school teacher and representative of the 5,000-member New
York State United Teachers Union. "Not enough parents are
telling kids that they simply can't have things. Instead,
they're telling them that if they can pay for it, then they
can have it."
   Opposing the proposed New York restrictions, which would
set a work limit of four hours a school day and 28 hours a
week on 16- and 17-year-olds, are representatives of many
small businesses. These include the Food and Merchants
Association, which represents 23,000 food retailers, and the
NFIB, which has 32,000 members in the state.
   "We think it's a bad bill," says Mr. Alesse, who heads the
NFIB staff in New York. "Taking work time away is no
guarantee that kids will use that time to study."
   Ralph Kushner, co-owner of Super Duper grocery stores in
Buffalo, N.Y., says he employed both of his children while
they were in high school and their grades didn't suffer from
the work. "As a parent and as a merchant, I find this to be a
tough dilemma."
   Mr. Kushner adds: "We severely doubt whether we can get
18-year-olds or over to fill these jobs. This may mean
cutting back our hours of operation. We've grown to depend on
younger workers."
   ---
               Limiting Teen-Age Work Hours
                                                                                                       

   Tennessee: Governor signed a bill to bar 16- and
   17-year-olds from working past 10 p.m. on school nights,
   except certain exempted students.
                                                                                                       

   Florida: Lawmakers established a panel to study child
   labor laws after watering down a bill to restrict work
   hours.
                                                                                                       

   Hawaii: A study of the issue is being conducted, and will
   include help from teachers and business leaders.
                                                                                                       

   Nebraska: A study of child-labor laws is under way to
   help decide on further legislation.
                                                                                                       

   New York: Proposed bill would set a 10 p.m. curfew on
   school nights and limit the workweek to 28 hours for 16-
   and 17-year-olds.
                                                                                                       

   North Carolina: A legislative committee is mulling an 11

                                                                                                       

   Ohio: Next week, lawmakers are expected to debate a bill
   setting curfews at 11 p.m. on school nights and 1 a.m. on
   weekends.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   RPM Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RPOW
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   RPM Inc. said it will redeem on July 6 all $30 million
outstanding of its 5 3/4% convertible subordinated
debentures, due 2001. The Medina, Ohio, company, which makes
products used in waterproofing, corrosion control and general
maintenance, said it assumes that all of the debentures will
be converted into common stock. As of March 31, RPM said, it
had about 22.5 million common shares outstanding; conversion
of all the bonds would increase that total to about 24.2
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Crude-Oil Futures Fall, but Saudi Arabia Says
   Its Discounts Don't Mark Start of a Price War
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Saudi Arabia moved to damp speculation it is launching an
oil-price war after the kingdom's new discounts triggered a
sell-off in world petroleum markets.
   In a government statement released in Riyadh and
Washington, Hisham Nazer, the oil minister, reaffirmed Saudi
Arabia's commitment to the May 2 agreement by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to reduce total
OPEC output by nearly 1.5 million barrels a day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The kingdom "promised at the May OPEC meeting to abide by
its quota" of 5.4 million barrels a day, Mr. Nazer said. "It
is still committed to what it promised."
   But before the statement was issued, a near collapse of
oil prices followed published reports confirming discounts
that had been widely rumored for Saudi pricing formulas.
According to Dow Jones International Petroleum Report, the
planned discounts will range between 25 cents and 70 cents a
barrel.
   In most areas, prices of crude oil were down 50 cents to
60 cents a barrel before the Saudi statement was issued. The
statement helped calm jittery oil markets some, and prices
recovered slightly.
   Still, on London's International Petroleum Exchange,
Brent-blend crude futures settled 23 cents to 34 cents a
barrel lower. In the U.S. futures market, prices of fuels in
the energy complex were all sharply lower. Some reached
life-of-contract lows before recovering.
   The July contract for crude oil traded on the New York
Mercantile Exchange fell through the technically important
level of $17 a barrel to a low of $16.42 before rebounding
some. It settled at $16.68 a barrel, down 46 cents for the
day. The August crude contract fell 38 cents, to $17.39.
   Some oil-market participants jumped to the conclusion that
the Saudi price discounts were a prelude to a pricing war
such as the one the kingdom launched in 1986. It was said
that the Saudis were running out of patience with those OPEC
members continuing to produce beyond their quotas.
   But there were indications that the discounts may have
been needed to keep Saudi crudes competitive in the current
pricing environment with the big overhang of crude supplies
in inventories or at sea in tankers. "The Saudi oil
authorities view their price moves as defensive and needed to
prevent volumes falling below quota," reported the
London-based Energy Compass.
   In his statement, Mr. Nazer made clear that the kingdom
only promised at the May OPEC meeting to remain within its
production quota. Since "Saudi Arabia has not pledged other
than that," he said, "it will be a baseless conclusion to
link the kingdom's commitment with the changing market
forces."
   Meantime, there were new reports that total OPEC
production is beginning to decline, if only modestly. The
Paris-based International Energy Agency released its monthly
estimate of world oil production showing OPEC's May output at
23.4 million barrels a day, down 400,000 barrels from revised
April figures.
   After futures trading closed, the American Petroleum
Institute released its latest weekly U.S. oil statistics. The
API report showed big inventory increases of 2.5 million
barrels in crude oil, 2.3 million barrels in gasoline and 4.1
million barrels in distillates, including heating oil.
   The immediate reaction in the cash market was negative,
with U.S. spot prices of crude oil dropping a further 15
cents a barrel. Also late yesterday, some U.S. refiners
reduced their posted field prices for West Texas Intermediate
crude by 50 cents a barrel to $15.75. According to the API
report, however, the nation's imports of petroleum also
declined in the latest week. "That may be an indication
OPEC's production is indeed tapering off," said Nauman
Barakat, first vice president at Shearson Lehman Hutton.
   In other commodities markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: The price of the corn futures
contract for July delivery rose 4.5 cents to settle at
$2.7825 a bushel, as rains returned to the Midwest and
traders reasoned that this year's crop yields may be less
than ideal. Farmers have been late planting corn through much
of the Midwest because of soggy spring conditions. Analysts
said the weather needs to be virtually perfect for the rest
of the growing season for yields to be strong. "With all this
moisture and coolness and poor germination, you get shallow
root development," said Richard Loewy, president of
AgResource Co., Chicago. "If the weather is very hot in July,
it could kill off some of the crop," he said. Potential for a
weak crop is being coupled with strong demand for corn
products, analysts said. Corn is a major component of
livestock feed and the nation's cattle herd is expected to
expand this year. For these reasons, "any perception of lower
yield will be explosive on prices" of corn-futures contracts,
Mr. Loewy said.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rose. The thinly traded spot June
contract, which will expire June 27, advanced 2.90 cents a
pound, to $1.1710, while the most-active July contract was up
1.95 cents, to $1.1310. A price-supporting factor was that
holders of June call options in the London market declared
their intention of exercising their right to buy June futures
contracts, analysts said. In addition, two major U.S. mining
corporations, whose labor contracts expire June 30, have not
yet reached agreements with their unions. The possibility of
production disruptions because of strikes is creating some
uneasiness among traders, one analyst said. Peruvian copper
output during the first four months of this year fell 29%
from the year-earlier period because of strikes; Chile
suffered a loss of some 100,000 tons of refined-copper output
because of various production problems, analysts said. The
July futures price has fallen about 7%, or nine cents a
pound, during the past 3 1/2 weeks. Yesterday's low of
$1.1020 a pound in the July contract was near the key support
level of $1.10, an analyst said. Some demand was triggered at
the low and helped the July price rebound. Another analyst
observed that the $1.10 level was a "crucial one." If the
July price had fallen below it, he said, there likely would
have been a test of $1.05.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices rebounded from recent
weakness, led by platinum. July-delivery platinum rose as
much at $10 an ounce, to $497, before easing to settle at
$492.30, up $5.50. August gold was up $1.20 an ounce at
$363.60. July silver advanced 1.4 cents an ounce, to $5.0960.
"Platinum has been oversold and dragged down by gold and
silver," said Jacques Luben, executive director of the
Platinum Guild International, an industry group. "The belief
among traders is that it shouldn't have fallen as much as it
has, and the low prices attracted renewed demand for bullion
from Japan," he said. This demand, in turn, touched off short
covering, or the purchase of futures contracts that were
previously sold by traders who thought prices were going to
fall further. Stuart Shinbein, senior technical editor for
Commodity Research Bureau, a New York unit of Knight-Ridder,
observed that the lift in platinum, as well as in gold and
silver, was helped by a soft dollar. Further, Mr. Shinbein
said, demand for July platinum-futures contracts appeared
when the price fell to the day's low of $487 an ounce. The
three precious metals, he said, have declined significantly
from November highs. Platinum fell more than 10% from $556 in
that time. It hit a life-of-contract low of $446 in April
before recovering to present levels. July silver suffered a
new low as it dropped 18% from its November high of $6.22.
August gold, in falling 17% from $440 in November, is nearing
the $356-to-$360 area it reached in June and September of
1989. Fred Demler, metals economist for PaineWebber, New
York, noted that South African labor contracts at
precious-metals mines with the National Union of Mineworkers
run out July 1. There has been some unrest and wildcat
walkouts, he said, and as the deadline nears, concern is
going to grow unless agreements are reached.
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK and MEATS: Prices of hogs and pork-belly futures
contracts rose sharply on rumors that the Soviet Union would
use any credit guarantees it might receive from the U.S. to
buy meat, principally pork. As part of the recent summit
between President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev, the U.S. proposed granting the Soviet Union
trade-related credits if it eased emigration restrictions on
Soviet Jews. The proposal is also subject to approval by
Congress. A report released after the end of trading
yesterday showed higher-than-expected movement of frozen pork
bellies from storage. "That shows we're consuming bellies at
a higher than normal rate," said Thomas Morgan, president of
Sterling Research Corp., Arlington Heights, Ill. Pork bellies
are uncured slabs of bacon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP AEP AHM MII BCC NSP I.ISA R.OKB CHL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Electric Power Co. -- $436.6 million of 9.82%
secured lease-back obligation bonds offered in equal issues
of $218.3 million by each of two AEP units: AEP Generating
Co. and Indiana Michigan Power Co. The bonds, due 2022, were
priced at par. The bonds, which have a semiannual sinking
fund and an average life of 27 years, were priced at a spread
of 137.5 basis points above the Treasury's 30-year bellwether
bond. Rated Baa-2 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
triple-B by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
   Home Savings of America -- $250 million of 10 1/2%
subordinated notes due June 12, 1997, priced at 99.70 to
yield 10.56%. The notes, which are non-callable for 5 3/4
years, were priced at 207 basis points above the Treasury's
seven-year note. The size of the issue was increased from an
originally planned $200 million. Rated Baa-1 by Moody's and
triple-B-plus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. Home
Savings of America is a unit of H.F. Ahmanson &amp; Co.
   Morton International Inc. -- $200 million of 9 1/4%
credit-sensitive debentures due June 1, 2020, priced at 99.14
to yield 9.335%. The non-callable debentures were priced at
92.5 basis points above the Treasury's 30-year bond. They are
called credit-sensitive securities because the coupon will be
adjusted upward in case of a rating downgrade or downward in
the event of a rating upgrade. Rated single-A1 by Moody's and
double-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
   Boise Cascade Corp. -- $125 million of 9.85% notes due
June 15, 2002, priced at par. The size of the issue was
increased from $100 million. The non-callable notes were
priced at 140 basis points above the Treasury's 10-year note.
Rated Baa-1 by Moody's and triple-B-plus by S&amp;P, the issue
will be sold through underwriters led by First Boston Corp.
   Northern States Power Co. -- $100 million of 9 3/8% first
mortgage bonds due June 1, 2020, priced at 98.75 to yield
9.50%. The bonds, which are non-callable for five years, were
priced at 106 basis points above the Treasury's 30-year bond.
Rated double-A-1 by Moody's and double-A by S&amp;P, the issue
will be sold through Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                           MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   Washington Public Power Supply System -- $875 million of
nuclear project refunding revenue bonds for Project Nos. 1, 2
and 3, Series 1990B, priced by a First Boston Corp. group.
The issue was increased from $702.3 million at the
preliminary pricing and was restructured and repriced late in
the day to lower some yields. The Project No. 1 bonds were
priced to yield to 7.885% for bonds due in 2017, which are
callable in two years. Project No. 2 consists of bonds due in
2012 that were priced to yield 7.55%. Project No. 3 bonds
yield to 7.674% in 2018. The bonds have been rated double-A
by both Moody's and S&amp;P. Fitch Investors Service Inc. has
rated the issue double-A-minus. Some maturities are insured.
The bonds were oversubscribed, and there will be no unsold
balance remaining, the underwriter said.
   Industrial Development Authority of Maricopa County, Ariz.
-- $201.9 million of refunding revenue bonds priced by a
PaineWebber Inc. group. The bonds, for Samaritan Health
Services Hospital, were priced to yield from 6% in 1990 to
7.31% in 2013. The $155 million Series A bonds were priced to
yield from 6.60% in 1996 to 7.31% in 2013. Series B bonds
totaling $46.9 million were priced to yield from 6% in 1990
to 7.20% on term bonds due in 2019 and zero-coupon bonds due
in 2006-09. The issue is insured and triple-A-rated.
   California School Board Association of Sacramento -- $175
million of 6% certificates of participation priced by a Piper
Jaffray &amp; Hopwood Inc. group. The certificates, due July 3,
1991, were priced to yield 6.25%. They are rated SP1-Plus and
have a letter of credit from Fuji Bank Ltd.
   Monroe County, N.Y. -- $104 million of various
anticipation notes, apparently won by a Chemical Securities
Inc. group and a First Boston Corp. group. Chemical
Securities won the $69 million June maturity; the 5.93% notes
were priced to yield 5.85% June 14, 1991. First Boston said
it won the $35 million April maturity; the 5.85% notes were
priced to yield 5.75% April 30, 1991. The issue is rated
double-A by Moody's.
   Hawaii -- $100 million of general obligation bonds priced
by a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group. Yields range from
6.15% in 1993 to 7.10% in 2009 and 2010. The issue is rated
double-A/double-A.
   Mayor and City Council of Baltimore -- $90.8 million of
refunding revenue bonds priced by a Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
group. The issue consists of $56.5 million of Series 1990A
water project bonds, priced to yield from 6% in 1992 to
7.125% in 2020. There also is $34.3 million of Series 1990A
wastewater project bonds, also priced to yield from 6% in
1992 to 7.125% in 2020. The issue is insured and
triple-A-rated.
   Allegheny County, Pa. -- $84.8 million of Series 1990A
airport revenue bonds priced by a Smith Barney, Harris Upham
&amp; Co. group. The bonds, for Greater Pittsburgh International
Airport, were priced to yield from 6.25% in 1992 to 7.429% in
2018. The bonds are insured and triple-A-rated.
                                                                                                       

                            MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Chemical Mortgage Securities Inc. -- $77.1 million of 9%
Remic mortgage securities offered in four classes by Chemical
Securities Inc. The offering, Series 1990-1, is backed by
30-year fixed-rate mortgages with an weighted average coupon
rate of 10.70% and weighted average remaining term to
maturity of 29.3 years. Price and yield data weren't
immediately available. The issue is expected to be rated
triple-A by S&amp;P, based on the quality of the underlying loans
and a letter of credit covering 12% of the deal from Credit
Suisse. The loans were originated by Chemical Bank and
Chemical Financial Services Corp.
                                                                                                       

                           EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Istituto Bancario San Paolo di Torino (Italy) -- $250
million of subordinated variable rate depository receipts due
July 26, 2000, via Salomon Brothers International Ltd.
Initial coupon will float at 0.25 point above the U.S. dollar
three-month London interbank offered rate. Alternatively, for
first five years, coupon will be Libor plus 0.50 point, and
from year 6 to maturity, at a spread of 0.60 point.
   Osterreichische Kontrollbank AG (Austria) -- $200 million
of 9 1/8% Eurobonds due July 12, 2000, priced at 99.60 via
Morgan Stanley International Ltd. Fees 0.325.
   Ford Credit Funding PLC (U.S. parent) -- #100 million of
13 3/4% Eurobonds due July 9, 1993, priced at 101.275 via
Samuel Montagu &amp; Co. Guaranteed by Ford Motor Co. Fees 1 3/8.
   International Finance Corp. (agency) -- 10 billion Spanish
pesetas of 13 3/4% Eurobonds due June 22, 1995, priced at 101
1/4 via Bankers Trust International Ltd. Fees 1 5/8.
   Bacob Overseas Ltd. (Cayman Islands) -- 50 million
Canadian dollars of 12 3/4% Eurobonds due July 9, 1993,
priced at 101.80 via ScotiaMcleod. Guaranteed by Bacob
Savings Bank. Fees 1 3/8.
   Republic of Ireland (sovereign) -- 100 million Swiss
francs of 7 3/8% public bonds due July 12, 2002, priced at
101.63 via Credit Suisse. Fees 3.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Security Pacific Corp.
   Ex-Aide Is Sentenced
   In Drug-Money Case
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A former supervisory officer of Security
Pacific National Bank's central vault, 27-year-old Jose O.
Lopez, was sentenced Monday to 46 months in prison for
conspiracy in a drug-money laundering operation.
   Also sentenced for the same offense was Geno Apicella, 27,
to 37 months in prison. Both men pleaded guilty Feb. 28 to
the conspiracy charges, which came after an undercover
investigation by Internal Revenue Service special agents and
internal investigators of Security Pacific National Bank, a
unit of Los Angeles-based Security Pacific Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the four-month investigation, an IRS undercover
agent posing as a money man for narcotics traffickers gave
$364,000 to be laundered through Security Pacific by the
group, which Mr. Lopez headed.
   In addition to Messrs. Lopez and Apicella, five other
defendants pleaded guilty to conspiracy and were previously
sentenced.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields at Banks,
   Brokerage Firms
   Fell in Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage firms were down across the board in the
week ended yesterday, with longer-term maturities showing the
greatest declines.
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs sold by leading
broker-dealers dropped the most. Average yields on two-year
CDs fell to 8.35% from 8.60%, while average yields on
five-year CDs fell to 8.43% from 8.63%, according to
Banxquote Money Markets, an information service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yields on small-denomination CDs sold directly by banks
also dropped. The average yield on a one-year consumer CD
went to 7.93% from 8.00%, while two-year consumer CDs eased
to 8.01% from 8.12%, according to an 18-bank survey by
Banxquote.
   While none of the banks in the survey offered a yield as
high as 9%, investors can still find consumer CDs at some
banks that yield 9% or more.
   Meanwhile, average yields for large-denomination CDs,
which typically require deposits of $90,000 or more, also
fell across the board. Average yields on two-year jumbo CDs
fell to 8.11% from 8.22%, while five-year maturities fell to
8.28% from 8.41%.
   "The sharp decline was due to the drop in Treasury rates,
which fell Friday due to weaker-than-expected employment
data," said Norberto Mehl, Banxquote chairman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nevada Power Co.:
   Contract with SCEcorp Unit
   Is Rejected by Regulators
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SCE NVP
</CO>
<LP>
   Nevada's utility regulators rejected a power purchase
contract between Nevada Power Co. and SCEcorp's Mission
Energy Co. unit, citing "unreasonably high costs for the
project."
   "The evidence showed that Nevada Power can get a better
deal for ratepayers," said Tom Stephens, chairman of the
Nevada Public Service Commission. "There is a clear need to
adjust the price of this contract."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the proposed contract, Nevada Power would purchase
electricity generated by a new 210-megawatt power plant that
Mission would build on property adjacent to a Nevada Power
station in the east Las Vegas valley. Nevada Power estimates
the plant would cost about $88 million to build, and it has
agreed to buy the electricity for $6.16 per kilowatt per
month.
   The commission has given Nevada Power 30 days to either
negotiate a contract price that would be similar to what it
would cost if Nevada Power built the project itself, or
develop an alternative.
   Nevada Power plans to renegotiate with Mission, a
spokeswoman said. Officials of SCEcorp, a Rosemead,
Calif.-based utility holding company, weren't available for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   New Jersey's Public School Financing
   Is Struck Down by State's Highest Court
   ----
   By Edward Felsenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   New Jersey's highest court struck down the state's system
of financing public schools, ruling that the system doesn't
provide enough money for schools in poorer, urban districts.
   The court's concern, shared by a number of other state
supreme courts, is that property tax-based financing of
school systems tends to result in greater school funding in
wealthier districts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite financing changes mandated by the court in 1975,
the New Jersey court said the system still produces
disparities among school districts and thus violates the
state's constitutional guarantee of a "thorough and
efficient" education. The court ordered that the state devise
a plan to guarantee equal funding among districts by the
beginning of the 1991-1992 school year. However, the court
said implementation of the plan may be phased in over an
unspecified period of years.
   In recent years, courts have rejected school financing
procedures in Texas, Kentucky, Kansas, Wisconsin, California,
Connecticut, Washington, West Virginia, Wyoming, Arkansas and
Montana.
   The New Jersey decision comes only a week after New Jersey
Gov. Jim Florio released a $1.2 billion proposal that would
increase state assistance to poorer school districts by
raising the state income tax for wealthy residents and
reducing the share of the state budget allocated to more
affluent districts.
   But lawyers and education finance experts say the New
Jersey decision is especially far-reaching -- perhaps more so
than the governor's plan. Rather than requiring a minimum
level of resources for poorer districts, the opinion calls
for the state to guarantee the same level of resources in all
districts. As a result, New Jersey could be forced to raise
budget allocations for poorer schools each time wealthy
districts independently increase their expenditures.
   Instead of allowing a restructuring of the current state
educational budget, the court "is essentially telling the
government you must increase expenditures for education,"
said Eric Neisser, a professor at Rutgers University law
school in Newark. The opinion estimates that the remedies
called for in the opinion may cost the state about $440
million annually. This comes as the state faces financially
difficult times; its deficit, currently at $600 million this
year, is projected to reach as much as $2 billion next year
if new taxes and budget cuts aren't approved.
   Mr. Neisser said the opinion requires the state to do more
for inner-city schools than Gov. Florio had proposed, given
that the governor's plan established only a minimum
expenditure requirement for each student in the state. But a
spokeswoman for the governor disagreed, saying the Florio
plan "goes far beyond what the state has outlined."
   Gov. Florio supported the position of the plaintiffs in
the case, 20 school-age children from four New Jersey cities.
The administration of his predecessor, Thomas Kean, defended
the current financing system. A spokeswoman for the New
Jersey attorney general's office said that U.S. Supreme Court
review of the case can't be sought because there are no
issues of federal law in the case.
   Meanwhile, in response to a similar ruling by the Texas
Supreme Court last fall, the Texas state Senate yesterday
approved a $528 million plan to increase funds available to
poor districts. If the plan is approved by the House, as
expected, it would be financed by an increase in the state
sales tax and tobacco levies. Texas Gov. Bill Clements agreed
to the plan last week, after vetoing two previous school
finance reform packages that called for higher sales tax
increases.
   The New Jersey decision reflects "the inclination on the
part of a growing number of state courts" to find a state
constitutional basis for changing the way states pay for
public education, said Laurence Tribe, a professor at Harvard
Law School. In a landmark 1976 decision, the U.S. Supreme
Court said that the equal protection clause of the federal
constitution does not provide grounds for requiring that
public school financing be restructured.
   A 1975 decision by the New Jersey state court relied on
that state's constitution to require the legislature to
restructure its education financing system, and in 1976 the
court approved the legislature's plan to increase funding for
poor districts by raising the state income tax. However, the
school systems still rely significantly on local property
taxes.
   In its decision yesterday, the court said that the 1976
plan did not work as intended, pointing out that disparities
between resource levels at rich and poor districts have
widened since the mid-1970s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Fear of Taking the Rap on Taxes Brings Out
   Differences Between House, Senate Democrats
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- When White House Chief of Staff John Sununu
took a thinly veiled swipe at Congress on taxes last month,
House Democrats reached for the telephone. Senate Democrats
looked for the cameras.
   A worried House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta
(D., Calif.) called Budget Director Richard Darman to protest
that Mr. Sununu had jeopardized fragile deficit-reduction
talks. Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.) raised similar
concerns directly with President Bush when the president
called the speaker about a separate matter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By comparison, Senate Democrats elevated the controversy
by going before television cameras. "I don't ever call
Darman," says Rep. Panetta's counterpart, Senate Budget
Committee Chairman James Sasser (D., Tenn.). Senate Majority
Leader George Mitchell kept himself one step removed by
having his office verify Mr. Sununu's reported remarks
through channels. The Maine Democrat then argued for Speaker
Foley to join him in a televised statement that condemned the
chief of staff's comments -- painting Democrats as pro-taxes
-- as "untrue, unfair, and ill-timed."
   The Democratic response says a lot about the differences
between the two bodies of Congress. A nervous Senate appears
driven foremost by external, election-year pressures on the
budget talks. The House leadership reflects more the
internal, institutional stakes in reaching some accommodation
on the deficit.
   As budget negotiations resume this week, these lines may
blur, but the contrast between the two chambers underscores a
dilemma for Democrats as the legislative party. To show
strength and retain power -- most immediately in the Senate
-- the party leadership is determined that the White House go
first in addressing the budget crisis. But by waiting for a
reluctant president to act, congressional leaders risk
abandoning their historic constitutional role as keepers of
the nation's purse.
   Leaders in both houses speak less of the founding fathers
than of the dictates of 20th century budget acts, and it took
an irate representative -- under attack for pork-barreling --
to break ranks and mention Article I of the Constitution.
"The Constitution clearly places the responsibility for the
appropriation of public funds on the Congress of the United
States," said Rep. Bob Traxler (D., Mich.) of the House
Appropriations Committee in recent debate. "Not the
president."
   With a 55-45 majority, Senate Democrats come into the
budget talks as skittish as cats. Their backs arch at the
mention of taxes. Claws come out at the prospect of losing
seats in November. Mr. Sasser is a former state Democratic
chairman from Tennessee. Mr. Mitchell is more of a partisan
than his softer Eisenhower Democrat image suggests. His base
of power is built on his success as a campaign chairman
electing Democrats to the Senate in 1986, and he is bent on
protecting this class -- and his own leadership post -- in
the critical 1992 elections two years away.
   After two decades in the Senate, Finance Committee
Chairman Lloyd Bentsen is by nature an inside, incremental
legislator. But after running as the Democratic
vice-presidential nominee, he can't escape the more outside
role of a party leader expected to articulate broader themes.
The gray-haired Texan is quickly annoyed at any suggestion
that he might be influenced by the 1988 campaign, but few are
more pointed in demanding that Mr. Bush address the nation on
the deficit problem before the talks can truly succeed.
   "That's what he hired out for," says Sen. Bentsen. "You
don't just give the good news."
   House Democrats, by comparison, have the more trusting,
workaday nature of hounds. The rank-and-file worry about an
anti-incumbent mood at home and redistricting in 1992. But no
one in the top leadership has ever served in the minority --
or expects to soon.
   Mr. Panetta is a former Republican who has devoted much of
his House career to the budget. Mr. Foley resists public
confrontation and is the last of the appointed party whips to
rise to the speakership. The gruff Ways and Means Committee
Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) speaks fondly of Mr.
Bush as a former colleague. As for Mr. Sununu, House
Democrats insist, as one committee chairman put it, that the
chief of staff is just that -- only "staff."
   When Democrats took over the Senate four years ago, their
victory was built on wins in the South and Midwest. These
states are pivotal in talks today -- Mr. Mitchell's
representative, Georgia Sen. Wyche Fowler, is from the class
of '86. But the same regional base imposes limits as well. In
crafting his own budget outline for the fiscal year beginning
Oct. 1, Mr. Sasser had to avoid cuts in agriculture to
placate farm-state allies. And Democrats must cope with the
fact that part of their success four years ago was owed to
their ability to mimic the GOP's own populist, antitax
rhetoric.
   In the years since, the onus has shifted as a Republican
administration now looks for revenue to fend off Pentagon
cuts and finance the savings-and-loan bailout. But anti-tax
pledges could yet haunt freshman senators from Alabama and
South Dakota. And Sen. Terry Sanford, a progressive former
president of Duke University, stumped North Carolina in 1986
as an antitax former paratrooper, whose television ads
attacked his GOP opponent -- then-incumbent James Broyhill --
for supporting federal tax increases.
   A former member of the House Ways and Means Committee,
Sen. Fowler serves as a bridge between the two chambers, and
his most natural allies are the younger, more aggressive
members of the Democratic leadership. House Majority Leader
Richard Gephardt, Mr. Foley's proxy in the budget talks, was
a colleague on Ways and Means; the Missourian has ties to the
South and is identified with the same Midwest populism that
helped Senate Democrats in 1986. Majority Whip William Gray
of Philadelphia -- perhaps the most political of Mr. Foley's
choices -- is a northern, urban black, but his rapid rise
owes as much to his support in the South, where he has built
alliances with rural, conservative white Democrats as well as
such regional interests as tobacco. "I am not interested in
raising taxes on Americans," says Rep. Gray.
   Mindful of deadlines imposed by the Gramm-Rudman
deficit-reduction law, Mr. Darman is anxious to strike some
settlement by mid-July. But in the early skirmishing, no
agreement has yet been reached on even a target for the
deficit-reduction package. Options swing wildly from $300
billion over five years to a number twice as high, and the
fascination with multiyear plans belies immense problems in
accurately calculating the impact of policy decisions. Among
Republicans, there is increasing tension between Texas Sen.
Phil Gramm, who has proposed to freeze nondefense
discretionary spending, and the more moderate ranking member
of the Senate Budget Committee, Sen. Pete Domenici of New
Mexico.
   Mr. Darman himself speaks in terms of a five-year, $420
billion deficit-reduction package. But as the
savings-and-loan crisis has worsened, Democrats have grown
bolder in bidding up the stakes as a means to test the
president's commitment to permanent changes, including
significant taxes. As a result, after first asking that a
target amount of deficit reduction be agreed on, Mr. Darman
has backed away from insisting on this condition.
   The House is scheduled to begin drafting fiscal 1991
appropriations bills without waiting for a final budget, but
the greater test may come in the Senate as the Democrats seek
to pass their own preliminary budget resolution in the coming
weeks.
   The narrowly divided Senate is more fragmented than the
House and more subject to the whims of individual members.
Any future budget agreement will be put to this same test,
and in an election-year atmosphere, the clean-air debate this
spring was a striking illustration of the differences between
the two chambers.
   Sen. Mitchell was forced to expend immense political
capital and in one case publicly sided with the auto industry
against his own environmental constituency to protect Sen.
Carl Levin, up for re-election in Michigan. By comparison,
Speaker Foley applied his energy behind the scenes more to
avoid votes than win them. When House Energy and Commerce
Committee Chairman John Dingell (D., Mich.) sought to delay
debate, the speaker insisted it go forward. When Mr.
Rostenkowski sought to challenge critical revenue provisions,
Mr. Foley blunted his effort. And when environmentalists and
labor couldn't agree on auto-fuel provisions, Mr. Foley
forced the two sides to come together at least long enough to
allow his Democrats to escape having to make a choice.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IBM Cuts Prices of Some PCs
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARMONK, N.Y. -- International Business Machines Corp. said
it cut prices on several models of its Personal System/2
personal computers, including its popular Model 55 SX.
   The cuts, which were expected, range from 4% to 10%. The
suggested price of a Model 55 SX with a 60-megabyte hard disk
drive, for example, drops 9%, to $3,895 from $4,295.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition to two models of the 55 SX, IBM cut prices on
two versions each of the Model 30 286 and Model 50Z. It also
reduced the price of 30-megabyte hard disk drives 16%, to
$695 from $824.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- Getting Started:
   Index Funds Are Hot -- but Which One?
   ---
   Popular S&amp;P 500
   Loses Some Luster
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   DRY IBM
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   {An Occasional Look at Financial Fundamentals}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   First, the good news: If you invest in a mutual fund that
tracks the U.S. stock market as a whole, you are likely to
outperform the vast majority of all stock mutual funds.
   Now, the bad news: Although a lot of folks think they own
funds that track the whole market's performance, they don't.
   So-called index funds are the hottest mutual-fund product
of 1990, with industry giants Dreyfus Corp., Fidelity
Investments and Vanguard Group slugging it out for market
share.
   Unlike most stock funds, which are actively managed in an
effort to achieve superior returns, index funds don't try to
outguess market swings or hunt for bargains. They simply buy
and hold all or most of the stocks that make up a market
index. Dreyfus, Fidelity and Vanguard all now offer funds
that seek to track the performance of Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock index, the most popular benchmark among index fund
investors.
   So far this year, Vanguard's top selling stock fund is its
$2.3 billion Index Trust -- 500 Portfolio, the oldest and
largest of the stock-index mutual funds. The fund buys the
500 stocks that make up the S&amp;P-500 index, and thereby hopes
to closely track the index's performance. This passive
strategy served shareholders well in the 1980s, when it
generated 17% annual returns, better than 73% of all stock
funds.
   But now fund analysts and industry executives are warning
that the S&amp;P-500 stocks account for only part of the U.S.
stock market. And it is starting to look like an increasingly
pricey part.
   "We've been concerned about that for some years," says
John Bogle, Vanguard Group's chairman. "There's certainly
been a bias {toward bigger stocks} in the market. The issue
is, will Standard &amp; Poor's 500 funds be as dominant in the
'90s as they were in the '80s? We don't know the answer to
that."
   Index funds get their edge partly from staying fully
invested in stocks at all times. That was a big plus during
the raging bull market of the 1980s. Index funds also are
cheap to run. Vanguard's 500 Portfolio has annual operating
costs of 0.2%, vs. 1.5% for the typical actively managed
stock fund.
   Lured by Vanguard's success, in terms of both investment
performance and attracting investors' dollars, Dreyfus and
Fidelity are trying to muscle into the index-fund market.
Earlier this year, both companies launched funds that track
the S&amp;P 500.
   The trouble is, S&amp;P-500 stocks no longer seem to be
representative of the entire U.S. stock market. While S&amp;P-500
stocks posted sparkling returns during the 1980s, other U.S.
stocks trailed badly. How badly? Take a look at the Wilshire
4,500, which is the Wilshire 5,000 index of all U.S. stocks
minus the S&amp;P-500 stocks. During the 1980s, the Wilshire
4,500 posted a cumulative total return of 300%, vs. more than
400% for the S&amp;P 500 stocks.
   As a result of this lopsided performance, by the end of
1989 the stocks in the S&amp;P 500 accounted for 73% of the
market value of all U.S. stocks, up from 68% a decade
earlier. The benchmark for measuring the market value of all
U.S. stocks is the Wilshire 5,000, which doesn't restrict
itself to 5,000 stocks, but rather includes all U.S. stocks
traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock
Exchange and Nasdaq. Over the course of the 1980s, the number
of stocks in the Wilshire 5,000 ballooned from 3,785 to
5,870.
   As critics of indexing are quick to point out, a big
reason for the strong stock-market performance of the S&amp;P-500
companies -- and of S&amp;P-500 index funds -- is indexing
itself. "When people are buying a stock because it's listed
in an index, that creates inefficiency," notes Donald
Phillips, editor of Morningstar's Mutual Fund Values, a
Chicago newsletter.
   Does that mean that the success of indexing in the 1980s
was a fluke, a self-fulfilling prophesy caused by the huge
influx of indexing money into the S&amp;P-500 stocks? Not at all.
Even a strategy of indexing the whole market would have paid
big dividends over the past decade. Vanguard Group estimates
that a Wilshire 5,000 index fund would have returned 16.4% a
year after expenses during the 1980s. That would have put it
ahead of 65% of all stock funds.
   For those who want to index the whole market, the only
current choice is Vanguard. In 1987, the company launched a
fund that tracks the Wilshire 4,500, called the Extended
Market Portfolio. Combine this fund with Vanguard's 500
Portfolio, and you would get exposure to the entire U.S.
stock market. To own each index in the right proportion given
their relative market values, you would currently have to put
$26 in Vanguard's Extended Market Portfolio for every $74 you
put in the 500 Portfolio.
   Later this year, IBM Credit Corp. plans to launch two
index funds. While they will be aimed at employees of
International Business Machines Corp., they also will be
available to the general public directly from IBM Credit.
Taken together, the two IBM funds will index the 3,000
largest U.S. companies. But IBM's funds currently propose
charging hefty annual expenses of 0.8% a year. By contrast,
the annual expenses charged by Dreyfus, Fidelity and Vanguard
are all under 0.3%.
   How much of your money should you have in an index fund?
Morningstar's Mr. Phillips says that for many investors,
indexing half their stock portfolio would make a lot of
sense. "You forsake the chance of really doing well, but you
also won't do really badly," he says. "It's a strategy for
people who don't have a lot of time."
   ---
                An Index For Every Occasion
                                                                                                       

   Vanguard dominates the index fund market, but Dreyfus and
Fidelity are hoping to change that. Here are some of the
no-load index funds with the lowest annual expenses.
                                                                                                       

                              ANNUAL  INVESTMENT
                            EXPENSES   MINIMUM*   TELEPHONE
                                                                                                       

 STANDARD &amp; POOR'S 500
   Peoples Index Fund
     (Dreyfus)**               N.A.   $ 2,500  (800)782-6620
   Spartan Market Index
     (Fidelity)***            0.28%    10,000  (800)544-6666
   Vanguard 500 Portfolio     0.20      3,000  (800)662-7447
                                                                                                       

 RUSSELL 2000
   Vanguard Small Company#    0.35      3,000  (800)662-7447
                                                                                                       

 WILSHIRE 4,500##
   Vanguard Extended Market#  0.23      3,000  (800)662-7447
                                                                                                       

 SALOMON BROAD INVESTMENT
 GRADE BOND
   Vanguard Bond Market Index 0.24      3,000  (800)662-7447
                                                                                                       

 MORGAN STANLEY CAPITAL
 INTERNATIONAL EUROPE
   Vanguard European
   Portfolio#                 0.32      3,000  (800)662-7447
                                                                                                       

 MORGAN STANLEY CAPITAL
 INTERNATIONAL PACIFIC
   Vanguard Pacific
   Portfolio#                 0.32      3,000  (800)662-7447
                                                                                                       

   * Minimum for IRA accounts may be less
   ** 1% redemption fee that reverts to the fund
   *** For redemptions made within six months, fund charges a
0.5% fee that reverts to the fund
   # 1% upfront fee that reverts to the fund
   ## Wilshire 5,000 minus the S&amp;P-500 stocks
   N.A.=Not applicable. Dreyfus is currently absorbing all
fund expenses
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Litton Industries Unit Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LIT
</CO>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Litton Industries Inc. said that
an oil-services unit awarded a $90 million contract to
Ulstein Hatloe AS of Norway for construction of three seismic
exploration ships.
   Litton, a technology company, said that the ships will be
delivered in the second half of 1991 to Western Atlas
International Inc., a majority-owned Litton subsidiary based
in Houston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Some See New Energy in Oil Refiners' Stocks,
   Figuring Firms' Properties Will Rise in Value
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   SB CNPA DRM HSM ASH VLO SUN
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The sparsely followed oil refining and
marketing industry is gaining converts on Wall Street, where
some say it is one of the few undervalued sectors left in the
market.
   The enthusiasm isn't confined to analysts who recommend
refining stocks as a quick in-and-out "trading" play. There
are plenty of these short-term bulls, who are looking for
fatter profit margins in the next few months. Refining
profits often swing wildly with the price of crude oil and
the demand for refined products such as gasoline and heating
oil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But now there's a longer-term case for the stocks as well
-- even though Wall Street has long regarded refiners as a
short-term sideshow to the "integrated" oil giants such as
Exxon and Mobil.
   One money manager with a good track record in energy
stocks is buying refining-company shares with an eye to the
long-term value of oil refineries and the storage and
pipeline networks that surround them.
   The theory is that environmental restrictions, building
costs and local political opposition make it just about
impossible to put in a new oil refinery in the U.S. today. As
a result, old refineries -- even ones that have to be
upgraded to meet new environmental rules -- will become more
valuable.
   "You cannot build a refinery facility in this country from
the ground up any more," says Alan Gaines, president of
Gaines, Berland Inc., a money management and institutional
stock brokerage firm specializing in energy issues. "Even if
you could, the cost of construction runs between $10,000 and
$12,000 per barrel of daily throughput capacity." (Refinery
capacity is usually defined by the number of barrels of crude
oil a plant can process daily.)
   By those estimates, a typical 100,000 barrel-a-day
refinery would cost $1 billion to $1.2 billion. Mr. Gaines
says a refiner would need profit margins of $12 to $14 a
barrel to make the facility pay; current refining margins are
about $8 a barrel.
   Mr. Gaines, a former energy analyst for Standard &amp; Poor's,
expects prices paid for refinery properties to escalate in
the next few years, boosting refiners' shares. Recently,
refineries have sold for as little as $2,000 per barrel of
daily capacity -- for plants that were badly located or had
limited prospects for upgrading -- and for as much as $6,000
per barrel of capacity.
   The integrated oil companies, which find as well as refine
oil, "will buy refineries rather than build them," Mr. Gaines
says. "There is scarcity value in the independent refiners."
The scarcity is especially acute in the case of storage
facilities and pipelines to big urban markets. "The
infrastructure is not up to the job, and it's tough to get
permits to build," he says. "That's why I think refining will
be a phenomenal business in this decade."
   Mr. Gaines's stock picks include four independent oil
refiners and marketers, which he began accumulating as long
as two years ago. A more recent addition is Salomon, which
owns four oil refineries in addition to a securities firm.
The four picks:
   Crown Central Petroleum, whose Class B shares closed at 32
1/4 yesterday, down 5/8 in American Stock Exchange composite
trading, is "undoubtedly the most undervalued of the four on
an asset basis," says Mr. Gaines.
   He contends that the company's refineries and its network
of gasoline stations are worth "in excess of $100 a share."
   Diamond Shamrock, which fell 1/4 to 25 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, is worth $42 to $45 a share, Mr.
Gaines says, considering its upgraded refineries and the
quality of its management.
   Horsham, which bought an oil company out of bankruptcy
proceedings in 1988 and owns 22.5% of American Barrick
Resources, a gold producer, is worth between $13.50 and $14 a
share, he says. The stock closed at 8 1/2 yesterday, up 1/8,
in Big Board trading.
   Ashland Oil, which last week was ordered to pay $10.3
million in damages to neighbors of its refinery in
Catlettsburg, Ky., is undergoing a restructuring, Mr. Gaines
says. The company has been shedding its construction and
engineering business to focus on refining, marketing and
chemicals. The stock, which dropped 1/4 to 36 1/4 on the Big
Board yesterday, could be worth $65 a share in two to four
years, Mr. Gaines says.
   "All of these stocks in three years will approach
asset-transfer values," Mr. Gaines says.
   He isn't the only one of Wall Street's oil followers who
are fond of refiners these days. But the rest tend to suggest
playing them for the short term. Goldman Sachs, for example,
is recommending Ashland, Valero, Diamond Shamrock and Sun Co.
because it expects refining profit margins to be high for the
next few months. Mabon Nugent is recommending Sun, Valero and
Ashland for similar reasons; Prudential-Bache Securities is
bullish on Sun as a refining play.
   One respected oil analyst, William Brown III of Kidder
Peabody, last week headed in the opposite direction, saying
refining margins had peaked and downgrading Ashland to "hold"
from "buy."
   In Mr. Brown's view, Mr. Gaines's argument that refining
capacity will become scarce fails to account for older, idle
refineries in the Caribbean that could be put back into
service if gasoline demand -- which has been declining --
starts to rise.
   Mr. Gaines, who made money by betting on price declines at
several refining companies in the mid-1980s, argues that the
Caribbean refineries are too outmoded to be restarted
economically.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury to Sell Bills
   Totaling $17.2 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $1.15 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of about $17.2 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $16.05 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing Sept. 13 and Dec. 13, 1990,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Paramount Profit
   Skidded by 67%
   In Second Quarter
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Paramount Communications Inc. reported a 67%
drop in fiscal second-quarter net income, but the
entertainment company reversed its year-earlier loss from
continuing operations.
   Operating earnings from the entertainment sector dropped
about 13% from a year ago, reflecting write-offs on films,
particularly "Crazy People." And Paramount's publishing
lines, reflecting their seasonal nature, posted slightly
wider operating losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But analysts and investors also are looking to what they
expect will be a strong summer film schedule for Paramount.
And the company reiterated its fiscal 1990 profit forecast of
$2.10 to $2.60 a share.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Paramount shares closed at $49.75, up 62.5 cents.
   Net income for the second quarter ended April 30 fell to
$21.2 million, or 18 cents a share, from $65.6 million, or 55
cents a share, in the year-earlier period.
   The latest quarter includes no discontinued operations.
The year-ago quarter reflected a loss of $5.3 million, or
five cents a share, from continuing operations plus $70.9
million, or 60 cents a share, of profit from discontinued
operations.
   Revenue rose 16% to $811.5 million from $699.1 million.
   The latest period includes $21.8 million of interest
income primarily from investment of proceeds from the October
1989 sale of the Associates finance unit to Ford Motor Co.
for $3.35 billion.
   Paramount's "entertainment area has been a little cold
since `Indiana Jones' and except for `The Hunt for Red
October,'" said Alan Kassan, analyst at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   "But their summer schedule looks like it has a couple of
breakout films. `Another 48 Hours' should do very well {and}
`Days of Thunder' could be big, so I think you'll see more
positive earnings momentum in the second half."
   Paramount estimates operating profit from entertainment at
between $200 million and $250 million for fiscal 1990
compared with $252.2 million in fiscal 1989.
   Paramount's publishing lines reported their operating loss
widened to $27.4 million from $25.8 million. The
educational-publishing business reports the majority of its
sales in the fiscal third and fourth quarters, heading toward
the beginning of the school year.
   For fiscal 1990, Paramount expects publishing-operations
profit of $150 million to $175 million. Fiscal 1989 profit
here was $1.6 million, reflecting a $140 million charge.
   Paramount reported fiscal six-month net income fell 69% to
$42.4 million, or 35 cents a share, from $134.8 million, or
$1.13 a share, a year earlier. The year-earlier period,
however, reflects earnings from discontinued lines of $128.4
million, or $1.08 a share. Revenue advanced 12% to $1.66
billion from $1.47 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bell Atlantic PBX Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   BEL NT BCE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Bell Atlantic Corp. said it completed the
purchase of the mid-Atlantic regional PBX operations of
Northern Telecom Ltd.'s Meridian Business Systems Group.
Terms weren't disclosed.
   As part of the transaction, the company's Bell Atlanticom
Systems, Inc. unit acquired a base of 500,000 private branch
exchange ports serving 1,800 customers. The unit also became
an authorized U.S. distributor of Meridian's SL-1 and SL-100
PBX systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, about 560 Northern Telecom workers became
employees of the Bell Atlantic unit. Northern Telecom is a
unit of BCE Inc. of Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- BASF AG:
   Chemical Group to Acquire
   Bulk of Tape Cassette Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BAS G.BAY G.AGG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BASF AG said it agreed to buy the bulk of Agfa-Gaevert
AG's consumer and professional audio/visual-tape cassette
business for a sum it didn't disclose.
   The Frankfurt, West Germany, chemical group said that it
expects to sign a letter of intent for the Agfa purchase
today and that the companies will complete details as soon as
possible.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Agfa is a unit of the West German chemical company Bayer
AG.
   BASF said it agreed to buy both the consumer and
professional videotape cassette lines of Agfa but only the
professional audiotape line. The consumer audiotape
operations did not interest BASF.
   BASF, among the world's largest producers of consumer and
professional tapes, has 1.6 billion marks of annual sales,
which represents about 13.5% of BASF's 11.89 billion marks of
world-wide group sales last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Fall as Early Advance Gives
   Way to Profit-Taking in Busy Day
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market's latest move into uncharted
territory was short-lived, as an opening advance gave way to
profit-taking that sent prices lower in active trading.
   Reports that Saudi Arabia had lowered crude-oil contract
prices for July set off a bout of heavy selling among
oil-field services stocks, which paced the market's slide.
Also, the technology sector erased some of its gains over the
past few weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had advanced a
total of 4.1% in the five previous sessions since Memorial
Day and had set records in four of them, fell 10.19 to
2925.00.
   At the opening, the average rallied to a gain of about 12
points with the help of buying that spilled over from the
market's rally Monday afternoon. The industrial average had
jumped 34.22 points Monday, and nearly all of the gains came
as a result of that advance.
   But after the initial rise, the market drifted back into a
narrow trading range and then retreated as market players
moved to take advantage of its recent rally.
   "The selling which is coming in," said Paul Hennessey, a
vice president of trading at Boston Co. in Boston, "is
definitely aimed at taking some profits after a big run-up
here."
   Broader market measures fared better than the industrial
average, as the profittaking left more of a mark on blue-chip
issues. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index dropped 0.76 to
366.64, the New York Stock Exchange Index lost 0.28 to 199.93
and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index fell 0.68 to 341.30.
   Declining issues edged advancers by about 813 to 774 on
the Big Board, where volume swelled to 199,720,000 shares
from 175,520,000 shares Monday.
   "What we're seeing is a little bit of consolidation, which
is totally to be expected. You could see some continuation of
this for the next session or two," said John A. Conlon Jr., a
managing director at Rothschild Inc.
   However, traders said buying interest at prices just below
current levels appeared to be widespread, providing an
indication that stocks aren't likely to fall sharply from
their peaks right away. "People with cash positions that are
higher than they would like them to be have been looking for
an opportunity to get into the marketplace," Mr. Hennessey
said.
   In the oil-field services sector, Schlumberger plummeted 2
3/4 to 55 3/4 on Big Board composite volume of 1.8 million
shares, Baker Hughes slid 2 to 27 5/8 on 1.7 million shares
and Halliburton tumbled 2 3/4 to 46 1/4 on 1.4 million
shares. In addition, McDermott International eased 1 to 30
1/2 after reporting that its loss from continuing operations
for its fiscal fourth quarter, ended in March, widened from a
year earlier.
   Stocks of major oil companies were less affected by the
developments in the oil market, where July crude-oil futures
contracts fell 46 cents a barrel to $16.68 in New York
trading. Exxon closed unchanged at 48 1/4, Chevron was
unchanged at 70 3/8, Texaco fell 5/8 to 59 3/8, Mobil slid
3/8 to 63 1/8, Amoco dropped 3/8 to 52 3/4 and Unocal fell
1/8 to 30.
   AMR climbed 1 3/8 to 68 7/8 as two million shares changed
hands. Merrill Lynch raised its second-quarter earnings
estimate for the owner of American Airlines by 25 cents a
share, to $2.40, and reiterated its buy recommendation.
   Other airline stocks rallied as well, reflecting
expectations that the drop in oil prices will translate into
lower prices for jet fuel. Delta Air Lines rose 5/8 to 80,
Southwest Airlines gained 3/8 to 26 1/2, USAir Group added
3/8 to 30 1/8 and Alaska Air Group climbed 3/4 to 24 3/8.
   Meanwhile, financial issues continued to attract buyers
despite a downturn in the bond market, which gave back early
gains linked to the Saudi reports. Among money-center bank
stocks, Citicorp rose 3/8 to 25 on 2.3 million shares and
BankAmerica added 1/2 to 33 1/8 on 1.9 million shares.
Elsewhere in the sector, Primerica climbed 1 1/8 to 34 3/8,
PNC Financial added 1 to 37 1/2, NCNB went up 1 1/2 to 43 1/2
and Golden West Financial rose 7/8 to 33 1/8.
   Philips Industries jumped 3 1/4 to 17 1/4 on 2.5 million
shares. Tomkins PLC of Britain agreed in principle to acquire
the company for $18.50 a share, or $550 million.
   Campbell Soup surged 3 3/8 to 60. Three dissident members
of the founding Dorrance family formed a voting trust,
holding 16.5% of the company's common stock, and reaffirmed
their belief that a sale of Campbell Soup would be in the
best interest of its shareholders.
   Kellogg surged 3 3/4 to 72. Goldman Sachs put the stock on
its list of recommended issues and raised its second-quarter
earnings estimate by five cents a share, to $1.05. Food
analyst Nomi Ghez told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report
the stock "has been a major laggard" and the company is
"high-quality."
   Fluor fell 1 7/8 to 46 7/8 following the release of its
earnings report for the fiscal second quarter, ended April
30. Although its net income for the quarter exceeded
analysts' forecasts, a tax-related gain accounted for about
half its earnings.
   Greyhound Dial went down 5/8 to 28 3/8. The company said
it would take a $100 million charge to set up a reserve for
losses tied to Greyhound Lines, which filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law protection. Greyhound Dial owns 22.5% of GLI
Holding, which owns the bus company, and leases buses to the
line.
   National Intergroup rose 2 1/2 to 17 3/8 after disclosing
that it plans to conclude its restructuring by selling its
Ben Franklin Stores unit and either paying a special dividend
to its shareholders or buying back stock. The company also
said Howard M. Love would step down as chairman and chief
executive officer following completion of the restructuring.
   Tribune rose 1 to 44 7/8 after British publisher Robert
Maxwell acknowledged he would be interested in acquiring the
New York Daily News from the company if contract negotiations
with the paper's union reach an impasse.
   Morrison Knudsen, scheduled to join the S&amp;P 500 this week,
advanced 1 1/2 to 52 3/4. Stocks added to a major index
typically attract buying upon their inclusion from managers
of index funds, or portfolios designed to mirror the
performance of a selected market measure.
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi gained 3/8 to 5 5/8. In reporting that
first-half pretax profit dropped 29% from the year-earlier
level, the company said it agreed to sell its Hay Group
consulting unit for $80 million to a group including the
unit's managers and institutional investors.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 0.57
to 363.83. Amex volume totaled 13,310,000 shares, compared
with 12,700,000 shares Monday. There were 275 issues
advancing, 326 declining and 231 were unchanged.
   Team Inc. gained 7/8 to 17 1/8. The Wall Street Journal
reported in its "Heard on the Street" column that R. Jerry
Falkner, research director at Southeast Research Partners,
favors the company as a possible beneficiary from the
expected passage of the Clean Air Act.
   Ecology &amp; Environment rose 1 to 18 1/4. The company
reported that net income for the fiscal third quarter, ended
April 28, more than doubled from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Im Bank Loan to Indonesia
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CPQ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Export-Import bank approved a $15.1
million loan to Indonesia for the purchase of computer
equipment primarily from Compaq Computer Corp., Houston.
   Indonesia's finance ministry is buying computers,
printers, terminals and other equipment to expand its
data-processing system. Total cost of the equipment is $17.8
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   FILMS: The National Geographic Society reached an
agreement with Imax Systems Corp. jointly to produce
giant-screen films and educational materials. The first film
is scheduled to be released in the fall of 1991. National
Geographic for 25 years has produced shows for television.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   RADIO: Shamrock Broadcasting Inc., a unit of Shamrock
Holdings Inc., signed a letter of intent to sell its KMGC-FM
radio station in Dallas to Alliance Broadcasting Inc. Terms
weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Nikki Rocco was named to the newly created
post of senior vice president of distribution and marketing
liaison for MCA Inc.'s Universal Pictures unit. She was vice
president of Universal Pictures's distribution division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japanese Auto Makers Speed Into Europe
   ---
   Marketing and Promotion
   Plans are Intensified
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   NSANY TOYOY HMC J.MZD GM F C EUROP FIA F.PEU
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUNDERLAND, England -- Shivering against a chilly wind,
Ian Milburn points to drab prefabricated buildings crammed
into a small parking lot at Nissan Motor Co.'s British car
plant.
   "You mustn't be misled by these humble origins," the
Nissan design executive cautions. For inside the temporary
quarters, his colleagues are crafting the first Japanese car
designed entirely in Europe: a four-wheel-drive recreational
vehicle, set for launch in 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nissan, like other Japanese auto makers, is sinking roots
deeper into Western Europe, the world's largest car market.
The Japanese plan to get around import limits by greatly
increasing local production and importing Japanese autos made
in the U.S., moves that could double their share of the $180
billion market to 22% by 1995. Their European assembly plants
may roll out more than 700,000 cars annually by 1997, more
than nine times last year's level.
   Now, Japan's big car manufacturers are beefing up a
previously weak leg of this European juggernaut: the selling
side. "It's obviously an essential part of completing their
penetration of the European market," says Daniel Jones, a
motor-industry management professor at University of
Cardiff's School of Business. Stephen Reitman, an auto
industry analyst at UBS-Phillips &amp; Drew in London, believes
the new thrust "represents a very serious threat to the
Europeans." Other car makers, while pinched by slowing demand
and overcapacity, "will have to match the Japanese at their
own game" with higher quality, lower costs and extra dealers.
   Japanese auto makers are following a trail blazed by Ford
Motor Co. and General Motors Corp., seeking to become more
sophisticated marketers throughout Europe in a variety of
ways. Among them:
   -- Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Mazda Motor
Corp. have joined Nissan by setting up design facilities in
Europe that modify Japanese vehicles for European tastes and
that soon will devise products exclusively for Europe.
   -- Big Japanese auto producers are enlarging dealer
networks. Their estimated 14,400 dealers in Western Europe
barely surpass the nearly 12,000 owned by GM and Ford alone.
Honda will swell its ranks one-third to 2,000 dealers by
1995.
   -- The Japanese are taking greater control of independent
distributors. In January, Toyota agreed to buy up to 51% of
its British distributor and 4.7% of a United Kingdom
marketing concern that distributes Toyotas in three other
European countries. Nissan is trying to increase its 10%
share of a French distributor and wants to acquire its U.K.
one.
   -- In April, Nissan and Honda opened European marketing
headquarters that coordinate auto sales and service. Nissan's
new operation includes a huge distribution facility in
Amsterdam whose 30,000-car capacity cuts customers' six-week
wait for import deliveries to two weeks.
   -- The Japanese companies are spending millions of dollars
more to promote their emerging European identities and new
upscale imports such as Toyota's Lexus. The luxury car went
on sale in Britain yesterday for 34,250 pounds ($57,389)
each.
   The initial big test of this enlarged European marketing
push will come in Britain, where Nissan, Toyota and Honda
have committed $2.6 billion to major manufacturing
investments. Nissan led the way. Its Sunderland assembly
operation, begun in 1986, produced more than 77,000 midsized
Bluebirds last year.
   Despite the local production and heavy discounting, the
boxy Bluebirds never caught on widely among users of company
cars, whose employers often require European-made purchases.
Ford Sierras and GM Cavaliers dominate the lucrative
company-car market, which accounts for about half of all U.K.
new-car sales. The Bluebird "didn't work as well" as Nissan
had hoped, concedes Han Tjan, a Nissan Europe N.V. executive.
   In Britain this fall, Nissan will replace the Bluebird
with the Primera, a midsized vehicle that went on sale in
Japan last February. Analysts say the sleeker, rounded look
of the Japanese-designed Primera gives it a more European
feel. Nissan designers in Britain are making interior changes
that could enhance the Primera's appeal among Europeans, such
as substituting a round knob for the seat-adjustment lever
favored by Americans and the Japanese. Unlike a
more-luxurious U.S. version also due out in September, the
European Primera also will have a smaller engine and lack
standard antilock brakes, so it will more closely match
Cavaliers and Sierras.
   Toyota, too, is gunning for the British company-car
market, even though it won't start European auto production
until December 1992. The auto maker will increase its 205
U.K. dealers to 240 this year and 340 by 1995, partly to
handle expected Lexus sales. Last month, Toyota exhibited at
a London company-car show for the first time. And it hired an
ex-Ford man to woo company-car fleet managers.
   But rivals of Japanese car makers don't feel threatened by
their increased marketing aggressiveness. "There's nothing
special about any Japanese car. There's nothing special about
selling Japanese cars," says Derek Barron, chairman and chief
executive of Ford's U.K. unit, Britain's biggest auto maker.
"We are the principal players in the British fleet market and
we are going to stay that way."
   Indeed, in both Britain and West Germany, Japanese car
makers are finding it hard to recruit new dealers. They will
encounter an even greater marketing challenge in countries
such as France and Italy where strict import quotas curtail
their clout and strong domestic manufacturers can resist
dealer raids.
   National restrictions are supposed to end once the
European Community becomes a single market in 1992, giving
the Japanese open access to all EC markets. But Ford, Italy's
Fiat S.p.A., France's Peugeot S.A. and some other car makers
want a lengthy transition period, during which they would
count Japanese cars made in EC plants against the quotas for
the first time.
   Frans Andriessen, the EC's top trade negotiator, indicated
in April that the European Commission might embrace such an
approach. Yet including transplants in an extended transition
period could cripple Japanese car producers' carefully
crafted strategy of Europeanization.
   "The EC said, `You can't import here. You have to build
here. You have to be a European,'" recalls Nissan's Mr. Tjan
with a trace of bitterness. "We will have spent $2 billion by
1995" on European factories, he adds. "You can't say, `Okay,
now that you've invested that, we will count your cars as
Japanese.'"
   ---
                       Europe's Auto Output
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   Passenger car production in Western Europe, in millions
                                                                                                       

 VW Group (17.6% market share)                   2.3
 Fiat Group (14.8%)                              2.0
 PSA Group (14.8%)                               2.0
 Renault (12.7%)                                 1.7
 Ford (12.1%)                                    1.6
 Opel (GM) (11.6%)                               1.5
 Mercedes-Benz (4.0%)                             .536
 BMW (3.7%)                                       .489
 Rover (3.5%)                                     .466
 Volvo (3.1%)                                     .415
 Saab (0.8%)                                      .103
 Nissan (0.6%)                                    .077
 Jaguar (0.4%)                                    .048
 Porsche (0.2%)                                   .028
 Others (0.1%)                                    .012
                                                                                                       

   Source: Automotive Industry Data Ltd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Merc Fines
   And Expels Member
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Mercantile Exchange said it fined
William A. Walsh $35,000 and expelled him from membership for
making fraudulent Swiss-franc futures trades in 1988.
   Mr. Walsh, one of 48 individuals who was indicted last
year by a federal grand jury here on fraud charges, pleaded
guilty to making the illicit trades and is cooperating with
the government investigation of trading fraud. He is expected
to be called as a government witness in the trial of three
Swiss-franc futures traders that is under way in U.S.
District Court here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of his guilty plea arranged with the U.S.
attorney, Mr. Walsh will pay an unspecified amount of money
as restitution to customers he defrauded.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Weyerhaeuser Co. Division
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TACOMA, Wash. -- Weyerhaeuser Co. said that as part of a
year-old review of the company's businesses, it has decided
to keep its Personal Care Products division. Securities
analysts had speculated that Weyerhaeuser would sell the unit
as part of the review, in which the company evaluated whether
to keep or dispose of 25 of its businesses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Firms, Municipalities Go on Borrowing Binge
   And Bullish Investors Stampede to Greet Them
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   MZ X.TMP FRE FNM AEP MII BCC JAPAN IME+
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Corporate and municipal treasurers went on a
borrowing binge yesterday as they issued more than $2.7
billion of new notes and bonds.
   The flood of new supply is a sign that issuers find
current interest rates -- which have been falling for more
than a month -- now at very attractive levels. At the same
time, bullish bond market sentiment greatly increases the
success of new offerings. Traders said that issuers are
rushing to tap the debt market for fear that these favorable
conditions could change.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Investors, meanwhile, are snapping up the new notes and
bonds in an effort to lock in current rates before they fall
any further.
   The bulk of yesterday's new supply consisted of tax-exempt
municipal bonds, including an $875 million offering by
Washington Public Power Supply System. The nuclear power
agency, which is irreverently known as `Whoops,' is best
remembered as the issuer behind the biggest default in
municipal-bond history. In 1983, WPPSS defaulted on $2.25
billion of Project 4 and 5 bonds.
   But despite its infamous past, demand was so strong
yesterday for the WPPSS bonds that underwriters led by First
Boston Corp. restructured the offering by increasing the size
from the originally planned $600 million and reducing yields.
After the restructuring, the bonds, which were refunding
revenue bonds for Project Nos. 1, 2 and 3, were priced to
yield from 6.30% for one-year notes to 7.78% for 27-year
bonds.
   Brad Higgins, managing director of public finance at First
Boston, said the strong demand partly reflected the recent
credit rating upgrade on WPPSS bonds. Last week, both Moody's
Investors Corp. and Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. boosted ratings
on some WPPSS debt to double-A from single-A.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Junk bond prices continued to rise yesterday,
outperforming the broader bond market.
   Most junk bonds, which are speculative-grade corporate
bonds with low credit ratings or no credit ratings at all,
climbed 1/8 point to 1/4 point.
   The major market movers yesterday were again the bonds of
casinos operated by Donald Trump and those issued by retailer
R.H. Macy &amp; Co.
   Junk bonds of Trump Taj Mahal Funding and Trump Castle
Funding continued to slip on news that real estate developer
Donald Trump is facing an acute cash shortage.
   Trump Taj Mahal's 14% bonds, due in 1998, slid 2 7/8
points to 54 1/8 yesterday after shedding eight points
Monday. Meanwhile, Trump Castle Funding's 13.75% bonds,
maturing in 1997, declined 2 1/2 points to end at 58 1/2.
These bonds also fell eight points on Monday.
   The recently battered junk bonds of R.H. Macy jumped on
news that the company is "actively examining" opportunities
to refinance or reduce its debt.
   Macy's 14.5% senior subordinated debentures, due in 1998,
gained 2 1/2 points to close at 67 while Macy's 14.5%
subordinated debentures, maturing in 2001, advanced three
points to 56 1/2.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of Treasury bonds fell yesterday after a day of
seesaw trading.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended more than 1/4 point
lower, or $2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The
issue's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its
price, rose to 8.45% from 8.41%. The benchmark bond was
quoted late yesterday at a price of 103 5/32 compared with
103 15/32 Monday.
   The latest 10-year notes ended at 102 21/32 to yield 8.45%
compared with 102 26/32 to yield 8.43%. Short-term rates were
little changed.
   In early trading, prices of bonds moved higher on
expectations that oil prices would plummet following
overnight news wire reports that Saudi Arabia will cut some
of its crude oil prices to customers in July.
   Even though crude oil futures slipped substantially at the
New York Mercantile Exchange, "oil didn't fall as much as
hoped for and the bond market subsequently lost its
momentum," said James R. Capra, a senior vice president at
Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Washington Public Power Supply's $875 million bond
offering was clearly the highlight of the market.
   However, in addition to WPPSS, several other
municipalities tapped the market, including Hawaii, which
issued $100 million in general obligation bonds and Maricopa
County, Ariz., which issued $202 million in bonds.
   Despite the heavy supply, municipal bonds held up pretty
well.
   The New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% bonds due in
2018 finished unchanged at 98 5/8 to yield 7.28%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage-backed securities ended lower, with
prices retreating after posting gains early in the day.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities
for June delivery were down 1/8 on the day at 99 7/32, with
the bellwether issues having posted a 1/8 point gain shortly
after the opening.
   The spread between the Ginnie Mae 9.5% securities and the
10-year Treasury was at 129 basis points, unchanged from late
Monday.
   Ginnie Mae 9% securities were down 6/32 at 96 27/32, and
the 10% securities, at 101 20/32, were down 4/32.
   In other mortgage-backed markets, Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp. 9.5% securities were down 5/32 at 98 18/32, as
were the 10% securities, at 100 15/32. Federal National
Mortgage Association 9.5% securities were down 5/32 at 99
2/32, as were the 10% securities, at 101.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   It was busy for the investment-grade new-issue market as
more than $1.1 billion of debt was offered.
   The highlight of the session was a two-part debt offering
by two units of American Electric Power Co. The units, AEP
Generating Co. and Indiana Michigan Power Co., each sold
$218.3 million of bonds.
   The bonds, which mature in 2022, were priced at par to
yield 9.82%. Among other new offerings: Morton International
Inc. issued $200 million of "credit-sensitive" debentures
priced to yield 9.335% and Boise Cascade Corp. issued $125
million of 12-year notes priced to yield 9.85%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Most foreign bond markets were relatively quiet yesterday,
apparently because investors had little economic news on
which to trade.
   In recent sessions, some foreign government bonds have
taken their cues from the U.S. bond market.
   Among them are Japanese bonds, which rallied Monday but
lost ground yesterday.
   Japan's benchmark 10-year issue ended at a price of 88.19,
down 0.14 point, to yield 6.93%. (Bond yields quoted in this
column are calculated in local terms, but would show
different results if calculated by the semiannual compound
measure that is used in the U.S.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fading Picture:
   High-Definition TV,
   Once a Capital Idea,
   Wanes in Washington
   ---
   Despite Its Promise, It Riles
   Foes of `Industrial Policy,'
   Fails to Get Much Money
   ---
   A High-Tech Gift to Japan?
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   ZE JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Just last spring, high-definition television
was the hottest new technology in town.
   U.S. consumers, the Commerce Department predicted, might
well snap up $100 billion of high-definition TVs and VCRs
over the next two decades. Lawmakers decked out Capitol Hill
conference rooms with HDTV monitors to show off strikingly
sharp taped footage of the Olympics. At a high-level strategy
session, Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher and Pentagon
technologist Craig Fields signaled joint efforts to promote
the technology in the U.S. Then 65 officials from government,
business and academia split into three groups, war-game
style, to map out an HDTV battle plan against Japan and other
foreign competitors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It seemed possible that the U.S. government and industry
could work together in high technology, as they do in Japan,
to close the gap between the U.S. and Japan," says James
Magid, a Wall Street analyst who specializes in electronics
and attended the April 1989 strategy session.
   Today, HDTV is in retreat, a victim of political blunders
by its partisans and relentless opposition in the top levels
of the Bush administration. Mr. Fields has been ousted, Mr.
Mosbacher chastened and other HDTV allies silenced. The very
term high-definition TV is being shunned in Washington for
fear that any proposal identified with it will be snuffed
out.
   High-definition TV has come to symbolize the Bush
administration's technology strategy: An open checkbook for
basic research projects such as the space station or
superconducting supercollider, but a tight fist for
commercial technologies. The latter are best left to private
investors, not government managers, says Richard Schmalensee,
a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers. If
U.S. companies can't compete in high-tech markets without
federal help, so be it. "There's no divine right of U.S.
leadership that says our companies will always be market
leaders," Mr. Schmalensee says.
   The only large U.S. company still in the HDTV race is
Zenith Electronics Corp. Some small U.S. firms are scurrying
to build high-definition equipment, but they're all desperate
for money. Just constructing an HDTV manufacturing facility
could cost $200 million. "It infuriates me," says Peter
Brody, president of closely held Magnascreen Corp. in
Pittsburgh, who pioneered high-definition technology years
ago at Westinghouse Electric Corp. "The Japanese walked away
with the technology, and I can't get any money" to develop
new monitors, he says.
   High-definition may well represent the next great leap in
electronics technology. Researchers are experimenting with
various technologies to create sharper images and crystalline
sound, so that watching TV would become like going to a
movie. In Japan, the first of the new sets are expected to
cost at least $5,000 and go on sale next year. They would
then be sold in Europe and in the U.S. in the mid-1990s.
Prices would surely drop as sales increase.
   Later TV sets, incorporating more advanced technology,
would resemble large, thin wall screens. They could have
broad applications. Wall-sized monitors could display maps
and satellite images at Pentagon control centers;
window-sized ones could make next-generation TV sets; smaller
ones could become part of computer workstations and
medical-imaging devices. "High-resolution displays will be
the key to the computer of tomorrow," says Cornell economist
Alan McAdams.
   In the U.S., two little-known federal officials recognized
the potential of HDTV and pushed the government, and a
reluctant electronics industry, to back the technology in a
big way. The two men couldn't be more different in
temperament and political skills -- and those differences
helped determine their careers in government and the fate of
HDTV in Washington.
   The first, Alfred Sikes, headed the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration, a Commerce
Department backwater that he transformed into the
government's first HDTV advocate. Mr. Sikes, a cautious,
patient 50-year-old, once managed political campaigns in
Missouri, and he approached HDTV as a backroom organizer. He
recruited allies in Congress, commissioned studies showing a
huge potential market, courted the secretary of commerce and
pushed industry to devise a plan to pursue the HDTV market.
By late 1988, more than a year after he had started working
the issue, HDTV was getting hot in Washington.
   Then the second official, Mr. Fields, got involved, and
HDTV ignited. The 43-year-old Mr. Fields, intelligent and
aggressive, was the deputy director of the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency. Darpa, a reclusive, $1 billion
Pentagon agency that has pioneered many computer
technologies, sees Japan as an adversary second only to the
Soviet Union. Mr. Fields viewed HDTV, which would use scads
of semiconductor chips, as the coming wave in electronics --
and one that Japan was determined to ride to victory.
   But Mr. Fields approached the problem as a technologist,
not a politician, and stumbled badly. He proposed to leapfrog
the first generation of HDTV sets -- costly behemoths that
will use conventional cathode-ray tubes and weigh hundreds of
pounds -- and develop monitors as wide as four feet across
but not much thicker than picture frames. This meant funding
a host of exotic technologies, such as plasma gases and tiny
deformable mirrors -- but he couldn't find the money to pull
it off.
   He managed to persuade Darpa to start a largely symbolic
$10 million-a-year HDTV program. Then, he clumsily lobbied
Congress and other government agencies for 10 times that
amount -- without any luck. Darpa found itself in the worst
of all situations. Its HDTV foray made it seem as if the
Pentagon were trying to save the moribund U.S.
consumer-electronics industry. That didn't shake loose any
money. Instead, the publicity brought the attention of the
new Bush White House, which chose a hands-off approach to
commercial technology and, except for Commerce Secretary
Mosbacher, opposed HDTV as a handout to electronics
companies.
   "We didn't expect that, in a friendly takeover" -- Bush
Republicans replacing Reagan ones -- "we'd be seen as out of
step," says Robert Costello, a former Pentagon official.
   The usually adept American Electronics Association
blundered as well. In May 1989, the trade group was preparing
a request for $1.35 billion in research grants, low-interest
loans and loan guarantees for HDTV. But it didn't inform Mr.
Mosbacher, until then an HDTV ally, of the specifics of the
plan before he was scheduled to testify on it in Congress.
Mr. Mosbacher glanced at the price tag, turned to Senate
Commerce Committee Chairman Ernest Hollings, a South Carolina
Democrat, and lambasted the trade group for relying on "Uncle
Sugar" for handouts.
   "That was the watershed event that caused HDTV to
decline," Mr. Sikes says.
   Any question of where the White House stood was answered
around the time of the "Uncle Sugar" remark, when Mr.
Mosbacher and Commerce Department Counselor Wayne Berman were
invited to White House Chief of Staff John Sununu's office.
Gathered around were Mr. Sununu, Vice President Dan Quayle,
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, Budget Director Richard
Darman, Economics Adviser Michael Boskin and other top aides.
They were to discuss HDTV, and they weren't happy with the
Commerce Department's role.
   According to several participants, Mr. Boskin, Mr. Darman
and others took turns chewing out Mr. Berman for singling out
HDTV for special treatment, and they cajoled Mr. Mosbacher, a
longtime friend of the president, to take a broader approach
to technology. The message was clear: HDTV was out, and so
was anyone who pushed it too hard.
   One immediate casualty was a Commerce Department study of
HDTV. The study contemplated, as an option, spending billions
of dollars to support the technology and setting technical
standards to block foreign competitors. "It was precisely
what we go nuts about when the Japanese do it," says Mr.
Schmalensee, the White House economist.
   Also marked as a loser was any proposal for the government
to target specific industries for low-interest loans, even if
they need the aid to compete with Japanese companies that can
raise capital cheaply. "If the question is who's going to get
into a low-margin business {such as video displays}, it's
people with lots of capital who bet on high volume over the
long term," says Mr. Berman, describing a slew of Japanese
electronics companies but few American ones.
   By last summer, Mr. Mosbacher had quit the HDTV debate.
"It was like a vaudeville show," says Rep. Les AuCoin, an
Oregon Democrat who supports HDTV. "Someone yanked him with a
hook." (Mr. Mosbacher declines comment, but a Commerce
spokeswoman says he "wasn't yanked at all." Mr. Berman
explains the change by commenting: "We saw that Darman was on
the right track.")
   Mr. Sikes didn't need a hook. Ever the adroit politician,
he stopped talking about HDTV last spring and instead started
campaigning successfully for the chairmanship of the Federal
Communications Commission. Now Mr. Sikes, who sold a group of
small-town Missouri radio stations when he joined the
government, has heads of TV networks and film studios calling
on him for advice. "It's a kick," he says.
   He still has an important role in HDTV, too -- and one
that hasn't raised any flak from the White House even though
it uses technical standards as a tactic against foreign
competitors. He recently said the FCC will take until 1993 to
choose a method by which HDTV programs can be broadcast here
-- giving U.S. companies a chance to catch up with the
Japanese. It wasn't done to hurt the Japanese, "but it may
have the effect of slowing them down," says Richard Wiley, a
former FCC chairman who now heads the agency's HDTV advisory
panel.
   The FCC is leaning toward a system pushed by Zenith, say
officials involved in the agency's deliberations. That would
give Zenith tens of millions of dollars in royalty payments
and a leg up in developing U.S. HDTV receivers.
   Mr. Fields, who moved up to become Darpa's director,
wanted more. He pressed for a broad HDTV technology program
in which the Pentagon would seed U.S. companies with research
money. He won't talk about his role, but colleagues describe
him as dedicated, even obsessed, with the need to strengthen
the U.S. in competition with Japan and other countries.
   Mr. Fields's views closely reflect Darpa's intensely
nationalistic outlook. The research agency budgets just 0.1%
of its grants for foreign companies, even though many of its
grants are supposedly open to all bidders. It also translated
into English the Japanese best-seller "The Japan That Can Say
No" so policy makers could see how the authors argue that
technology can give them a military edge.
   Last July, when Thomas Murrin, the Commerce Department's
deputy secretary, invited Mr. Fields to weekly luncheons with
industry executives, the Darpa director used the occasions to
press his views. "We need a national religious conversion,"
he wrote Mr. Murrin in August, so that the government would
back heavy aid to high-tech industries, particularly
electronics, without worrying whether this transgresses
free-market dogma.
   "Anyone who proposes any ideas for solving the
competitiveness problem can be silenced by accusing him of
supporting `industrial policy,'" he complained. "And anyone
who suggests an approach tailored to the unique circumstances
of trade with particular countries . . . is a `Japan basher.'
It's hard to succeed against such a quiver of verbal arrows."
   Shortly after that, when a portion of the letter appeared
in this newspaper, Mr. Fields fell silent, too. He turned
down interviews, avoided lawmakers and sent his deputy,
Victor Reis, to represent him -- figuring Mr. Reis wouldn't
get Darpa into any more trouble because he didn't set policy.
   From then on, Darpa fought a holding action against HDTV
opponents. It enlisted allies in Congress to protect its tiny
$10 million program. Last November, these Darpa allies beat
back a plan by Deputy Defense Secretary Donald Atwood to kill
the HDTV program. Shortly before Memorial Day, they passed a
provision that freed $20 million in additional HDTV funds the
administration had tied up for six months.
   But these small victories couldn't save Mr. Fields. By
this February, he conceded in a letter to Congress, his
relations with the rest of the administration had
deteriorated so badly that the Commerce Department and White
House science adviser wouldn't respond to his letters asking
for help in devising an HDTV policy.
   The end came suddenly, in late April. An emissary from Mr.
Atwood's office showed up unexpectedly at Darpa and handed
Mr. Fields a piece of paper describing a new job assignment.
Mr. Fields and Mr. Atwood won't discuss the incident, but
congressional and Pentagon staffers say Mr. Fields was told
to sign the paper, resign or be fired for "insubordination."
He signed and now spends his days in a dead-end job studying
the Pentagon's laboratories and looking for work outside the
government.
   Other HDTV advocates clammed up, too. Mr. Murrin, the
deputy commerce secretary and a Westinghouse veteran,
attended the joint strategy session on HDTV and once backed
low-interest loans and other aid for high-tech industries.
Now, he dodges the controversy.
   "It's not practical for Tom Murrin from Pittsburgh, Pa.,
to come here and quarterback these issues," he says. "I'll
get benched so quickly you won't even see I played in the
game."
   But HDTV backers in Congress aren't giving up. Some
Democrats are pushing a $200 million "technology superfund"
that would provide low-interest loans to high-tech companies
and sharply increase funding for a new Commerce Department
technology program. And Rep. AuCoin says he plans to lobby
with the Defense Appropriations subcommittee on which he sits
to increase Pentagon HDTV funding to $100 million. "There's
life after death" for HDTV, he insists.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Limit on Thrifts' Lending
   To Be Relaxed by Agency
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Office of Thrift Supervision said it
intends to relax temporarily a new regulation that limits the
amount savings and loans may lend to an individual borrower.
   The move, which will ease the regulation for strongly
capitalized thrifts for the next year and a half, comes in
response to complaints by thrifts and the
housing-construction industry. They said the regulation was
forcing lenders to break off lending relationships with
economically sound projects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ordered by Congress in last year's savings-and-loan
bailout law, the regulation originally flatly prevented any
institution from lending more than 15% of its capital to a
single borrower. But under a phase-in plan the thrift
regulation agency intends to propose in the next few weeks,
well-capitalized thrifts initially will be allowed to make
loans equal to as much as 60% of their capital to single
borrowers engaged in housing construction. The limit would be
reduced gradually to 15% by the end of 1991, said a
spokesman, confirming a report in the American Banker
newspaper.
   Only thrifts that currently meet 1995 capital standards
enacted in the bailout law will be allowed to make the larger
loans during the phase-in period. About 1,185 of the
country's thrifts currently meet those capital standards.
   Previously, thrifts could lend up to 100% of their capital
to single developers, even though their net worth would be
jeopardized if such a loan resulted in big losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken:
   Agreement Set to Acquire
   Rest of Scandinavian Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   S.SEB U.SBG Y.DNC C.UBF K.UNI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Stockholm, agreed to
acquire the 78.3% of its London-based affiliate, Scandinavian
Bank Group, that it doesn't already own, the latest step in
the big Swedish bank's drive to expand in European investment
banking and fund management.
   SE Banken said it will pay #152.7 million ($225.8 million)
for the rest of Scandinavian Bank, valuing the commercial and
merchant bank at #195 million. Sellers are Den norske Bank of
Norway and Union Bank of Finland, each with a 31% stake;
Unibank of Denmark, 12.5%; and Landsbanki of Iceland, 3.8%.
The five banks took Scandinavian Bank private last December
in a deal that valued it at #179 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Scandinavian Bank, which had shifted to investment banking
and international lending, had a 1989 pretax loss of #3.2
million, its second consecutive deficit. But its attraction
is its international network, bringing SE Banken offices in
Sydney, Australia, and Brazil, and a potential jewel, a Swiss
unit, Banque Scandinave en Suisse, in which Chicago-based
Northern Trust Corp. holds a 21% minority interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mutual of New York
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MUTUAL OF NEW YORK (New York) -- Robert Holland Jr. and
Thomas C. Theobald were elected trustees at this insurance,
pension and investment-management firm, increasing the number
to 16. Mr. Holland is chairman and general partner of
Gilreath Industries, a Detroit-based plastics manufacturer.
Mr. Theobald is chairman of Chicago-based Continental Bank
Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Movie Studios Produce Uneven Picture
   With Efforts to Win More Video Buyers
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS GE SNE BV PCI MCA LIVE TWX
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- "Honey, I Shrunk the Kids" seemed like the
perfect movie to market on videocassette: It had been a
box-office blockbuster. It was popular with children, who
often wear out videos like record albums, watching them again
and again. And it had the marketing clout of Walt Disney Co.
behind it.
   So in March, Disney flooded the market with copies of the
movie. But consumers didn't bite in anywhere near the
expected numbers. Though sales are projected to exceed four
million units, some distributors say the studio is allowing
them to return as many as half the tapes they had ordered.
Disney won't confirm any figures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Disney rolled out "The Little Mermaid" on video last
month, it took a more conservative approach, shipping fewer
units initially. The movie, targeted more specifically to
children, has become one of the hottest video sellers ever --
and dealers can't get enough copies.
   Disney and other movie studios and distributors are still
struggling to get a handle on the unpredictable
"sell-through" market -- selling movies on video directly to
consumers for $15 to $30, rather than to video stores mainly
for rental at $80 to $90. The market has grown in recent
years, but only certain kinds of titles -- chiefly those with
big box-office sales and strong kid appeal -- appear suited
to home sale. Even then, costs are higher and success much
harder to predict than in the rental market. And launching a
video outside the Christmas season makes for an even bigger
gamble.
   "There will always be aberrations, but I believe
sell-through is a seasonal business," says Paul Culberg,
executive vice president of RCA/Columbia Pictures Home Video,
a joint venture of units of General Electric Co. and Sony
Corp. Even at Christmas, he adds, "there's a large risk
factor." Mr. Culberg passed up the chance to go the
sell-through route with the recent video releases of
"Ghostbusters II" and "Look Who's Talking," even though each
grossed more than $100 million at the box office and
"Ghostbusters" had strong appeal to children.
   H. Wayne Huizenga, chairman of Blockbuster Entertainment
Corp., says: "Our experience is that people just aren't
buying anything except exercise, kids', music and
instructional videos." He adds that sell-through represents
only 10% of the chain's revenue and hasn't hit the 15% he had
budgeted for.
   Though industry officials say there hasn't been any major
sell-through release that lost money, reports abound of
warehouses groaning with unsold videocassettes. Tom Adams of
Paul Kagan Associates, a Carmel, Calif., consulting firm,
estimates returns of about two million units for each of last
Christmas's big three releases: Warner Bros.' "Batman" and
Disney's "Bambi" and "Who Framed Roger Rabbit." John Taylor,
president of Ingram Video Inc., a big Nashville, Tenn.,
distributor, says, "`Honey, I Shrunk the Kids' is coming back
to us in the thousands."
   But the lure of finding big sellers like "E.T.: The
Extraterrestrial" keeps studios coming back. They know that
eventually the fast-growing rental market will reach a
saturation point. A recent A.C. Nielsen survey indicated that
per-household rentals dropped in 1989 from three years
earlier, even though overall rentals continued to climb
because more households had videocassette recorders. (Now 70%
of households own VCRs.)
   But video specialty stores such as Blockbuster aren't
worried, saying that while mom-and-pop video shops may be
hurting, business is booming at the larger chains.
RCA/Columbia's Mr. Culberg agrees. "The rental business is
still strong," he says. Renting "just isn't the hot toy it
was a few years ago. Now it's found its place as another
element in a mix of entertainment."
   Suppliers say there's every reason to think there are
untapped reserves of rental and sell-through customers out
there. "There's a whole generation of children in this
country who don't remember life without a VCR," says Louis
Feola, executive vice president of MCA/Universal Home Video.
"It's like the way people in the '50s and the '60s felt about
television." And after that, there's always the laser disk,
once the price of its hardware comes down.
   Proponents of sell-through also talk about pride of
ownership among a nation of collectors, comparing
videocassettes to hardcover books, which are as expensive as
tapes and probably don't get much more use. At least so far,
however, most consumers haven't developed a collector's
mentality about videos: Alexander &amp; Associates, a New York
consulting firm, estimates that for each sale in today's
market, there are 14 rental transactions.
   Sell-through has been a fairly common practice for some
older films packaged to sop up extra cash. Paramount
Communications Inc.'s Paramount Pictures unit last month
announced plans to add "Fatal Attraction," "Heaven Can Wait"
and about 45 other titles to its sell-through video library,
priced at $14.95 each.
   But with many titles, the sell-through market has become a
critical source of revenue. Paramount's 1987 release of "Top
Gun," the first movie to sell several million copies on
video, ushered in a new era by bringing in an estimated $50
million from sales to consumers. MCA Inc.'s Universal
Pictures released "E.T." for Christmas 1988 and reaped an
estimated $200 million in revenue.
   Still, the sell-through market is tricky. Warner's "Lethal
Weapon 2" had the third-highest box-office sales of any movie
last year. Executives at Warner Home Video thought that would
translate into a hot title for videocassette sales despite
its R rating, and about 2.5 million copies hit store shelves
in February. It nearly sold out, but analysts say it would
have generated the same revenue in the rental market, selling
about 400,000 cassettes at $85 each to dealers. "We made more
money," says Warner Home Video chief Warren Lieberfarb, "by a
slight amount."
   Selling films on video often requires a shift of
perspective. Box-office success doesn't translate into video
sales so readily as into rentals. "Video is still viewed by
some studio executives and by retailers -- many of whom are
unsophisticated -- as an extension of theatrical box office,"
says Bruce Apar, editor of Video Business magazine. But "it
has to be looked at as something separate."
   Marketing movies costs more in the sell-through market
than in rentals. Studios have to court consumers directly
with expensive television commercials rather than merely woo
video store owners with mailers. Industry estimates place the
marketing budget for "The Little Mermaid" at $20 million,
though Disney says that's high. Then there's the cost of
producing perhaps six million to 10 million cassettes for
sale, rather than 500,000 or so to rent; at $3 or $4 a
cassette, the increased numbers further reduce profit
margins.
   Disney took a new strategy with "Mermaid," shipping fewer
units initially and counting on steady re-orders rather than
pressuring dealers to load up with a large number of units
right away. "They're priming the pump rather than flooding
the market and waiting for bad news later," says Mr. Adams,
the Paul Kagan analyst.
   Parents have snapped up "Mermaid" so quickly during its
first few weeks in stores that Disney officials think it
could become the company's best-selling video ever by year
end, and maybe even second overall to "E.T." Disney home
video chief Bill Mechanic says the company already has
shipped more than seven million copies of the video. "We have
a tremendous amount of reorders already," even though the
cassette only went on sale May 18, he adds. He predicts
"Mermaid" will sell 8.5 million to 10 million units by year
end, with virtually no returns.
   Disney calls the animated film a "classic," though it just
made its debut in theaters last year. "Mermaid" doesn't have
the usual big promotional tie-in with a consumer-products
company, but Disney is making its largest purchase of network
TV time ever to advertise a video. It's also offering
consumers a $3 rebate from the suggested retail price of
$26.99. Some stores, especially large discount chains, have
priced "Mermaid" well under $20.
   Disney released "Mermaid" early so it wouldn't clash with
its planned Christmas release of "Peter Pan," though the
company has promised retailers a second "Mermaid" marketing
push for Christmas. Then Disney will yank the video off
shelves and put the film away for seven years, after which it
will join the rotation of "Disney classics" rereleased in
theaters.
   The next "sure thing" in the sell-through market will be
released in mid-October, when Live Entertainment Inc. ships
to stores at least five million copies of "Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles," which has grossed more than $121 million at
the box office. "It's got all the elements," says David
Mount, president and chief executive of Live Entertainment's
IVE home video unit. "We think it's going to be the biggest
video title of the year."
   Even Mr. Culberg, the sell-through skeptic from
RCA/Columbia, says: "If I had `Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles,'
I'd do it in a second."
   ---
                    All-Time Top Rental Titles
                                                                                                       

                (Based on times rented, in millions)
                                                                                                       

 Movie                     Distributor          Rentals
                                                                                                       

 Top Gun                   Paramount             105.5
 Crocodile Dundee          Paramount              66.2
 Dirty Dancing             Vestron                62.6
 Three Men and a Baby      Disney                 52.8
 Platoon                   HBO                    50.2
 The Color Purple          Warner                 49.5
 Robocop                   Orion                  47.8
 Die Hard                  CBS/Fox                47.8
 Fatat Attraction          Paramount              45.7
 Lethal Weapon             Warner                 45.7
                                                                                                       

   Source: Alexander &amp; Associates
   ---
                   Top 10 All-Time Best Sellers
                                                                                                       

        (Videocassette sales, in millions after returns)
                                                                                                       

 Movie                     Distributor            Units
                                                                                                       

 E.T.                      MCA                    12.5
 The Little Mermaid        Disney                 10.0*
 Batman                    Warner                  9.5
 Bambi                     Disney                  8.5
 Cinderella                Disney                  7.5
 Who Framed Roger Rabbit   Disney                  6.8
 The Wizard of Oz          MGM/UA                  6.7
 Honey, I Shrunk the Kids  Disney                  4.5*
 Indiana Jones and the
 Last Crusade              Paramount               4.0*
 The Land Before Time      MCA                     3.6
 Top Gun                   Paramount               3.5

   *Projected
   Source: Industry Estimates
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CT Financial Services
   Chief Mervyn Lahn
   Plans to Resign Post
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.IMS WNEWS BTI
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Mervyn Lahn, chairman and chief executive
officer of CT Financial Services Inc., said he plans to
resign Dec. 30. CT Financial is 98.2%-owned by a unit of
Montreal-based Imasco Ltd.
   Mr. Lahn is also chairman and chief executive officer of
Canada Trustco Mortgage Co., Canada's second-largest trust
concern in terms of assets. Canadian trust companies are
similar to U.S. thrifts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Lahn, 56 years old, said he is resigning because,
after 17 years as chief executive officer, he wants to make
way for younger executives. He said CT Financial's board is
expected to name his successor on June 25. The new chief
executive officer will be someone currently with the company,
he said.
   Mr. Lahn said he has no specific career plans, but he
won't join another trust concern after he leaves CT
Financial.
   Imasco, a consumer products and financial services
concern, is 40.4%-owned by B.A.T Industries PLC of the U.K.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Kubota Ltd.:
   Consolidated Pretax Profit
   Declined 29% in Latest Year
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   KUB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kubota Ltd., a Japanese maker of farm equipment and
ductile iron pipes, announced that despite a 14% gain in net
sales, consolidated pretax profit fell 29% in fiscal 1989 to
31.85 billion yen ($209.3 million) from 45.12 billion yen.
   Net sales rose 14% in the year ended March 31 to 821.88
billion yen from 721.39 billion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many of the newly consolidated subsidiaries posted strong
sales growth, contributing to the net sales gain.
   But operating profit was knocked down 15% by higher sales,
administrative and general expenses, to 36.31 billion yen
from 42.55 billion yen.
   Higher depreciation costs, caused by expanded production
facilities, cut into sales income as well, Kubota said.
   Net income tumbled 59% to 7.60 billion yen from 18.43
billion yen.
   Kubota cited losses from higher interest rates,
foreign-exchange losses and increased costs for starting new
businesses, such as computer-related fields through its
subsidiaries, for the plunge in net.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Sequoia Extends Liant Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SEQS
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   MARLBOROUGH, Mass. -- Sequoia Systems Inc., a maker of
fault-tolerant systems, said it extended its marketing
agreement with closely held Liant Software Corp., an
integrated programming systems concern, adding Liant's
Fortran programming language to Sequoia's product fold.
   Sequoia said Language Processors Inc., a Liant unit, will
offer its Fortran language for the Sequoia Series 300,
significantly enhancing the productivity of Sequoia's
software development environment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   H.F. Ahmanson Unit Debt Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   AHM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Home Savings of America, the principal
subsidiary of H.F. Ahmanson &amp; Co., said it sold $250 million
in subordinated debt. The seven-year notes were priced at
99.7% of face value, yielding 10.56%, the company said.
   The proceeds from the sale bring Home Savings' total
risk-based capital ratio, or the ratio of capital to a
calculation of assets adjusted to reflect their relative
risk, to 8.3%, well above the 6.4% required by regulators,
the company said. The lead underwriter for the offering is
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Home Savings is the nation's biggest savings and loan
institution.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Some Bears Still Talking Tough Despite Stocks' Surge
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It's a stock market money managers hate to
love.
   For many money managers, the stock market's recent string
of records has been about as cozy as an electric chair.
Staunchly refusing to jump into what they think is an
overpriced, highly speculative market, these bears are
sticking with high cash levels in their portfolios-even as
stocks head higher. As a result, many are watching their
performance slip.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "People keep asking me: `When are you going to buy?'" says
Henry Van der Eb, manager of the $235 million Mathers Fund,
which has had a 90% cash position since January. His answer:
Stocks are highly overvalued, and the U.S. is "potentially on
the edge of a deflationary recession or worse."
   But a lot more investors are willing to jump into the
current rally. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 8.3%
in May alone. Yesterday, the industrials fell 10.19 points to
2925, a slight retreat from Monday's record close. Cash
levels in stock mutual funds, relatively high in April at 7%,
fell to 6.1% by the end of May, according to a survey of
1,200 funds by Indata. Yet there are still plenty of bears;
more than 45% of investment advisers were still pessimistic
in late May, according to an Investors Intelligence survey.
   "The stock market has really climbed a wall of worry,"
says James Awad, president of BMI Capital, a money management
firm. "Corporate earnings have been difficult to navigate;
there has been little euphoria and lots of chances to lose
money. People are afraid to let their guard down."
   So what's bothering the bears? They see pitfalls in a
stock market that keeps bulling its way higher and higher.
Even though analysts are cranking up earnings estimates up
for a number of companies, bearish investors don't like the
outlook for the economy or interest rates; most of all, the
bears are disturbed by the way stock values, in their view,
seem to ignore economic fundamentals and float higher.
   Dozens of money managers who have performed well over the
years by buying cheap stocks say there are few bargains
today. Until a few weeks ago, many of these investors were
ahead of the stock market because they earned about 8% on
Treasury bills and other cash investments. But now the stock
market is gaining ground, and the bears are starting to
sweat.
   Still, Eric Ryback, portfolio manager of the $600 million
Linder Fund, says he will not change his discipline. He says
the fund has performed well over the years guided by his
bargain-hunting discipline. Mr. Ryback is keeping cash at
23%, because there are so few cheap stocks to buy.
   Charles Allmon, president and chairman of the $127 million
Growth Stock Outlook Trust, which has a 79% cash position,
says, "This market reminds me of 1987 all over again."
   "There is a huge deluge of money coming into stock funds,"
Mr. Allmon says. "Brokers are saying they are getting calls
from people who haven't bought a stock for three years."
   Mr. Allmon thinks stocks are overvalued by a number of
measures. He notes the stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average are trading at about 2.7 times the value of
underlying assets, while the average for the past 50 years is
about 1.5 times underlying assets. Even if current valuations
reflect higher earnings potential, Mr. Allmon thinks much of
the cash that factories and labor are generating is going
toward hefty interest payments on debt, and not dividends to
shareholders.
   Besides, he says, plants are operating at a high capacity,
so he doubts there is room for higher production to generate
more profits.
   "The pipelines are full, and a slowdown is in the cards,"
he says. "Common sense should tell you that this {market} is
living on borrowed time. People are not investing, they're
speculating."
   Dividend yield is another troubling fact for Mr. Allmon.
He says with further declines in the dividend yield on the
Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index, which is now about 3.3%,
stocks will not be able to compete with the low-risk returns
of Treasury bills.
   Still, some investors who were cautious for much of this
year are throwing in the towel amid the current rally. BMI's
Mr. Awad has been buying stocks and has reduced his cash
levels to about 10% from about 25% at the end of March.
   "If you are paid to outperform the market, you have to
capitulate," he says. But even those money managers who jump
on the stock bandwagon aren't particularly confident, he
says. "It has been so hard to beat the market that money
managers are gun-shy," fearful of another sudden stock market
correction like in January or October.
   Perhaps the most powerful argument that the dwindling camp
of bearish investors can muster is that interest rates are
falling because the economy is slowing. Inflation is dropping
because corporations can't raise prices, according to Carmine
Grigoli, chief strategist at First Boston Corp.
   Another danger, bears say, is the summary punishment that
investors are exacting on stocks that veer from the market's
expectations of high earnings growth. "Companies which
reported earnings on the light side of expectations -- such
as Fluor, L.A. Gear, and Adobe Systems -- saw holders of
these stocks exit in a rapid manner," says Ellen Harris,
chief domestic investment officer at PaineWebber Mutual
Funds; she has a 20% cash position in an $84 million fund she
manages. "That type of behavior is not consistent with a
broad-based move," she says. "Investors are showing caution
and a happy trigger finger." Mr. Van der Eb says that at the
first sign of an earnings setback, many of the growth stocks
"are taken behind the shed and shot."
   Still sticking to his 90% cash position, Mr. Van der Eb
claims the current rally is a "classic triumph of psychology
over fundamentals." He vows: "We are not going to deviate
from our discipline. Stocks are more expensive than they were
six months ago, while earnings are lower and interest rates
are higher."
   Arnold Kaufman, editor of S&amp;P's Outlook newsletter, says
that many of the staunch bears simply got blindsided. They
"didn't see the rally coming. There was a lot of intricate
reasoning for the market not to do what it's doing now. And
when it gets to a new all-time high, you hate to jump on the
bandwagon."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Journal's Peter Gumbel
   Wins Livingston Award
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Peter Gumbel, Moscow bureau chief of The Wall
Street Journal, was named a winner of one of the Livingston
Awards for Young Journalists, for excellence in international
reporting.
   Mr. Gumbel, 32 years old, was recognized for stories
detailing how attempts to restructure the Soviet Union's
centrally planned economy have, in some ways, made life more
difficult in that country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Livingston Awards, which include a $5,000 cash prize,
are made annually to journalists under age 35 for excellence
in local, national and international reporting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Anac Holding Corp.:
   Revco Unit to Sell Stores
   To Jack Eckerd of Florida
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   RDS ECK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Revco D.S. Inc., a unit of Anac Holding Corp., said it
agreed to sell 220 of its drugstores in five Southeastern
states to Jack Eckerd Corp. of Clearwater, Fla. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   For Revco, operating under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code, the sale represents a step in its plan,
announced Jan. 26, to divest itself of 712 stores in 17
states. Under Chapter 11, Revco receives court protection
from its creditors while it formulates a reorganization plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revco, which along with its parent is based in Twinsburg,
Ohio, has said it plans to pare down its drugstores to about
1,100 in 10 contiguous Eastern states that account for 64% of
its $2.7 billion in yearly sales. Revco said the latest sale
to closely held Eckerd is subject to approval by the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Kloeckner-Werke AG:
   Firm to Buy Plastics Maker,
   Shed Mannstaedt Steel Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   G.KLK BST BTI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kloeckner-Werke AG, said it is buying a British-owned
plastics company and is close to selling its Mannstaedt steel
unit to British Steel PLC.
   The West German steel, plastics and machinery group said
it has agreed to buy Eurotec Systemteile G.m.b.H., a maker of
moulded parts for the auto industry, from B.A.T Industries
PLC for 270 million marks ($160.2 million). Kloeckner-Werke
also is taking over about 180 million marks of debt in the
transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairman Herbert Gienow said at a news conference that
Kloeckner-Werke is close to concluding the sale of Mannstaedt
to British Steel for about 300 million marks. That's in line
with the company's continuing efforts to reduce dependence on
steel, once its core business area.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Lauer Gets Goodrich
   Operating Chief Post,
   Designated President
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- B.F. Goodrich Co. said John N. Lauer was
elected chief operating officer and will become president
when Leigh Carter retires on Sept. 1.
   The move makes Mr. Lauer, 51 years old, a likely candidate
to succeed John D. Ong as chairman and chief executive
officer of the plastics, specialty chemicals and aerospace
concern. But because Mr. Ong is 56, any succession appears to
be some years away.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Lauer joined Goodrich as executive vice president on
Jan. 1, 1989, from Hoechst Celanese, the U.S. unit of Hoechst
AG of West Germany, for which he was responsible for
engineered plastics operations.
   Mr. Lauer was hired by Goodrich with the understanding
that he would succeed Mr. Carter, who is 64, as president and
chief operating officer. He was elected to the Goodrich board
last September.
   Mr. Carter was president and chief executive of Tremco
Inc., a Cleveland-based producer of sealants and other
specialty chemical products, when Tremco was acquired by
Goodrich in 1979. He was elected an executive vice president
of Goodrich in 1982, vice chairman in 1984, and president and
operating chief in 1986.
   He helped complete the lengthy transformation of Goodrich
from a maker of tires and industrial rubber products into a
company that gets about half of its $2.4 billion in annual
revenue from polyvinyl chloride plastics and related
products, slightly more than 30% from specialty chemicals,
and nearly 20% from aircraft brakes and other aerospace
products and services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cobe Laboratories Inc.:
   Sweden's Gambro Extends
   Its Tender Offer for Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   GAMBY COBE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gambro AB said it extended its $37-a-share tender offer
for Cobe Laboratories Inc. until Monday while it complies
with requests for information from the Federal Trade
Commission.
   Cobe is a medical equipment company based in Lakewood,
Colo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gambro, a Swedish medical equipment maker, said it
provided the FTC with the information it requested yesterday,
and said that it must wait at least 10 days after complying
to complete the tender offer, unless the FTC terminates the
waiting period.
   As of late Monday, Gambro said that about six million Cobe
shares, or about 91% of the outstanding stock, had been
tendered under its offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Alden Gets UAL Unit Job
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   ADNEA UAL
</CO>
<LP>
   WESTBORO, Mass. -- Alden Electronics Inc., a maker of
facsimile communications equipment, said it received a
five-year, $430,000 contract from the United Airlines unit of
UAL Corp., Chicago, for installation of its weather graphics
dissemination system.
   The C5020 system will be used at United's corporate
headquarters for graphically displaying areas of turbulence
and significant weather developments throughout United's
route structure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   K-Swiss Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   KSWS
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   K-SWISS Inc., a Pacoima, Calif.-based designer, developer
and marketer of athletic footwear, announced an initial
public offering of 1,450,000 shares of its Class A common
stock at $17.50 each. Of the total, 1,115,000 shares are
being sold by the company and 335,000 by stockholders.
Proceeds will be used to reduce debt. Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
and Merrill Lynch Capital Markets will lead the underwriters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- De La Rue PLC:
   Pretax Profit for Year Rose
   41%, Printing Firm Reports
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.DLA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   De La Rue PLC, a U.K. specialty printing group, said it
pulled through a year of restructuring with a 41% rise in
pretax profit, to #38.5 million ($64.7 million) from #27.3
million, and forecast a further rise in earnings in the year
ahead.
   But a #57.3 million extraordinary charge, largely against
the sale and closure of several electronics and printing
technololgy units, led to a loss attributable to shareholders
of #37.6 million for the year ended March 31, compared with a
#2.14 million profit a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales, hit by the disposals, fell 33% to #349 million from
#523 million. Nevertheless, the company said it would
recommend a final dividend of 10 pence (16.8 cents), lifting
the total payout for the year even with the 13.25 pence paid
a year earlier.
   During the year, De La Rue disposed of its Crosfield
Electronics printing equipment manufacturer. It also agreed
to sell its Printrak unit and escaped a hostile takeover bid
by Norton Opax PLC.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   K-III Holdings Completes Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   T.TOC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- K-III Holdings Limited Partnership, an
affiliate of the investment bank Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp;
Co. here, said it completed the purchase of Ward's
Communications, which produces publications providing data to
the automotive industry, from Thomson Corp., a Toronto-based
publishing company. Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Foreign Insight:
   Korean Businessmen Remain Cautious
   Despite Friendly Roh-Gorbachev Talks
   ----
   By Joseph P. Manguno and Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The historic agreement between Seoul and Moscow to end 45
years of estrangement represents a personal coup for South
Korean President Roh Tae Woo and perhaps a significant step
in his efforts to break the long impasse with communist North
Korea.
   But the San Francisco meeting Monday between Mr. Roh and
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, at which they determined
to work toward normal diplomatic ties, isn't expected to
produce sharp changes in South Korea's nascent business
relationship with the U.S.S.R.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two presidents didn't set a timetable to normalize
relations, but to many observers their unprecedented talks
represent glasnost's biggest impact yet on Asia. "The Cold
War ice on the Korean peninsula has now begun to crack," Mr.
Roh said at a news conference in San Francisco.
   Indeed, Mr. Roh's comments about eventual diplomatic ties
were far more forceful than those of Mr. Gorbachev. The
Soviet leader, who didn't appear at the news conference, made
only the general remark that Moscow "must improve relations
with every one" of the Pacific Rim nations. "We can't do it
selectively."
   The Soviet Union and South Korea have never had diplomatic
ties. After World War II, Moscow played a role in dividing
the Korean peninsula into two nations, and it and China since
1949 have been North Korea's most important allies in its
confrontation with the South. Both communist nations
supported the North during the Korean War of the early 1950s,
China with troops, while the U.S. and the United Nations
aided the South. There are still more than 40,000 U.S. troops
stationed in South Korea. But as tensions have eased in
recent years among Washington, Moscow and Beijing, hostility
is undiminished between Seoul and Pyongyang.
   Analysts in South Korea say formal diplomatic relations
between Moscow and Seoul could come as soon as September;
alternatively, they predict April, when Mr. Gorbachev is
expected to visit Japan and talk of a new Soviet-Asian
relationship.
   Yet as the two leaders sat in San Francisco discussing
diplomatic moves and possible economic assistance from South
Korea, business executives in Seoul were trying to collect
$30 million in overdue trade bills from Moscow. That is one
of many barriers to improved economic and business relations
that the leaders' get-together won't easily surmount, say
executives, government officials and diplomats in the South
Korean capital.
   "The meeting will have no dramatic effect on business
relations," says Anatoliy Sirotuk, consular official at the
Soviet Chamber of Commerce and Industry office in Seoul.
"Because business relations are based on business potential,
not politics. And economic conditions in my country are still
not very attractive to Korean businessmen."
   The two nations have begun limited trade and business
contacts during the past few years; Moscow is desperate for
such links to help its crumbling economy. But South Korean
officials and executives agree that the meeting won't do much
to remove longstanding obstacles to increased trade and
investment. These observers cite Moscow's shortage of hard
currency to pay for imports, the nonconvertibility of the
ruble, the lack of investment guarantees and double-taxation
protection for Korean investors in the Soviet Union, and the
Soviets' undeveloped sense of business and economic
principles.
   Lee Ki Joo, assistant foreign minister for economic
affairs, says "the general direction is moving positively,
and of course, I'm sure that a sort of favorable environment
will be created as a result of the summit meeting." But, he
added, "on details, such as double-taxation avoidance and
investment guarantees, even if we agree on starting
consultations immediately, it will take some time to
negotiate and conclude agreements. So I don't know that the
attitude of Korean business people will change so suddenly."
   A hint of optimism comes from Lee Chang Jae, director of
the Soviet Union and East Europe Department for the
International Private Economic Council of Korea. "I don't
think there will be any immediate change in the concrete
economic relations," Mr. Lee said. "But psychologically, the
meeting is very important. With possible diplomatic relations
in the near future, I think a lot of Korean businessmen would
be willing to take a closer look at the Soviet Union."
   Mr. Lee, whose agency is funded by Korea's biggest
companies and business organizations, said he expects many of
the obstacles related to the "basic framework of economic
cooperation" to be solved in the near future. That would
include, he said, diplomatic relations, tax and investment
treaties, and basic business needs such as direct telephone
links.
   What can't be easily solved, he says, is the inability of
the Soviet Union to provide offices for Korean companies, or
for Soviet managers to deal with their economy. "That may be
the most important thing," says Mr. Lee, "and it will not
change with a meeting of some government leaders. It will
take a long time."
   The San Francisco meeting is a substantial personal coup
for Mr. Roh, who has actively sought ties with East bloc
countries since his election as president in 1988. Frustrated
in his effort to hold unification talks with North Korea, Mr.
Roh pursued relations with Pyongyang's socialist allies as a
way to pressure the hard-line North into ending its
belligerence.
   Mr. Roh said at the news conference that he asked Mr.
Gorbachev to "bear upon North Korea" to reduce its offensive
military posture on the peninsula. A South Korean aide said
Mr. Gorbachev had no specific response.
   South Korea has normalized relations with most Eastern
European nations, including Poland, Hungary and
Czechoslovakia. The South Korean news media is speculating
that Mr. Roh will meet with Chinese leaders, in what would be
another important step in pressuring the North. South Korean
officials say that once the Soviets establish relations with
the South, it will be easier for China to follow. But China
doesn't want to move first.
   There wasn't any immediate response to the Roh-Gorbachev
meeting from Pyongyang, which last week sharply criticized
the Soviets for agreeing to it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Bizmart Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   BZMT
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BIZMART Inc. said it filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission to offer 2,750,000 common shares,
including 750,000 to be sold by its venture-capital
investors. The fast-growing office superstores chain, based
in Arlington, Texas, said it will use the proceeds from the
two million shares it is selling for expansion. BizMart has
about 9.3 million shares outstanding. It said the
venture-capital investors are selling about 15% of their
BizMart stake. Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. is leading the
underwriting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Phillips-Van Heusen
   Says Profit Fell 78%,
   Plans Preferred Swap
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PVH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Phillips-Van Heusen Corp. reported a 78% drop
in fiscal first-quarter net income and said it is negotiating
to swap about half its preferred stock for less-expensive
subordinated debt.
   The apparel company's announcement got a positive response
from analysts and from investors, who sent Phillips-Van
Heusen's shares up 62.5 cents, to $22.25, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the quarter ended April 29, PhillipsVan Heusen said
net income sank to $643,000 from nearly $3 million a year
earlier. On a per-share basis, the results were a 15-cent
loss and a 10-cent profit, respectively, both reflecting more
than $2 million of preferred-stock dividends. Sales rose 4.9%
to $155.4 million from $148.1 million.
   "We were looking for a 20-cent loss and they came in at 15
cents. That was encouraging," said Jay J. Meltzer, analyst at
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   The preferred stock-for-debt swap, involving about half
Phillips-Van Heusen's $72 million of preferred stock, could
save the company as much as $1.2 million after tax annually,
said Irwin W. Winter, the company's chief financial officer.
The preferred, which is held by Prudential Insurance Co. of
America, carries an 11.25% interest rate.
   In addition, Mr. Meltzer noted that the swap "will benefit
earnings because interest costs are deductible while
preferred dividends are not."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.:
   Consolidated Pretax Profit
   For Fiscal '90 Surged 52%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MHI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. of Japan said its
consolidated pretax earnings for the year ended March 31
surged 52% to 146.49 billion yen ($962.5 million) from 96.27
billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income rose 8.9% to 67.51 billion yen, or 20.19 yen a
share, from 62.01 billion yen, or 18.68 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales increased 20% to 2.278 trillion yen from 1.89
trillion yen.
   Despite a 9.83 billion-yen gain from the sales of
corporate assets and a 14% drop in taxes to 50.41 billion
yen, the pace of profit growth slowed sharply from the pretax
level, as the company posted extraordinary losses of 51.24
billion yen, mostly representing a setback stemming from the
currency conversion of the value of warrant bonds, as a
result of sharp foreign exchange fluctuations, officials
said. The fiscal 1989 results didn't have any such losses.
Non-operating profit, including interest and dividend
receipts, climbed 30% to 63.752 billion yen. Sales of power
systems rose 37% to 646.25 billion yen; this line is
Mitsubishi's largest, accounting for 28% of total sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kodak Sells Unit to Japan Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MKA EK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- Eastman Kodak Co., a photographic,
chemical and pharmaceutical company, said it completed the
sale of its Charlotte, N.C.-based Verbatim Corp. subsidiary,
which makes and distributes floppy disks, to Mitsubishi Kasei
Corp. of Japan. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Analysts had estimated that Kodak would receive between
$190 million and $200 million for Verbatim. Kodak paid $175
million when it bought the business in 1985. Verbatim had
been marginally profitable for Kodak.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bloomingdale's Stamford,
   Conn., Dallas Stores to Close
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bloomingdale's said it will close its branches
in Dallas and Stamford, Conn.
   Chairman and Chief Executive Marvin Traub said the
closings followed a routine review of the company's
operations. The two stores generate about 4.5% of the
17-store chain's revenue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to an offering prospectus prepared last year by
First Boston Corp., Bloomingdale's was expected to produce
$107.5 million of earnings before interest and taxes in its
fiscal year ending Jan. 31, on revenue of $1.3 billion.
Bloomingdale's parent, Federated Department Stores Inc., a
unit of Campeau Corp., filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection in January.
   Retail experts say the decision to close the Dallas and
Stamford stores makes business sense because sales were
declining at both units. The Stamford store generated about
$35 million in revenue for the fiscal year ended January 28,
1989; while the Dallas store produced about $30 million in
sales during that period.
   The Dallas store opened in 1983 with much fanfare, but it
never really caught on with local shoppers. Over the last
three years, revenue declined more than 11%. Bloomingdale's
opened its Stamford store in l954. Since l985, Bloomingdale's
revenue at Stamford has declined one or two percentage
points.
   Gordon Cooke, executive vice president for sales promotion
at Bloomingdale's, said that the chain doesn't have plans to
close additional stores.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Boots Co.:
   British Retailing Venture
   Is Set With W.H. Smith
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BOO U.SMW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boots Co. and W.H. Smith Group PLC announced a joint
venture in Britain's do-it-yourself market that will create a
company to own and manage both British retailers'
home-improvement stores.
   Boots and W.H. Smith will each own 50% of the venture,
which will have net assets of #104 million ($174.3 million)
and trade under the name of W.H. Smith's Do It All chain. By
combining the Do It All stores and Boots's Payless chain, the
venture will have 230 outlets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Payless, acquired by Boots in August as part of a #900
million hostile bid for Ward White Group PLC, a diversified
stores and manufacturing group, had pretax profit of #8.7
million on sales of #273 million in the 14 months ended March
31. Do It All had pretax profit of #7.7 million on sales of
#238 million in the year ended June 3, 1989.
   "This is a major realignment in the {do-it-yourself}
market," said Malcolm Field, group managing director of W.H.
Smith and chairman of the joint-venture company. He said the
companies "believe that this market has considerable scope
for profitable growth."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Manville Corp.:
   Firm's Forest Products Unit
   Buys Swedish Fiskeby Board
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Manville Corp., Denver, said its Manville Forest Products
unit completed the acquisition of Fiskeby Board AB from
Kooporativa Forbundet.
   Terms of the cash transaction weren't disclosed. However,
Manville said the Swedish supplier of recycled and coated
boxboard products had 1989 sales of about $65 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it put Manville's
senior debt and preferred stock ratings on CreditWatch with
negative implications, following a joint court ruling
ordering the company to return to federal bankruptcy court to
reconsider the funding of a trust established to pay asbestos
claims.
   The rating concern said its move could affect about $220
million in senior unsecured debt, currently rated double-B;
and preferred stock, currently rated single-B-plus.
   Late last week, a U.S. district judge and a New York state
judge gave the forest and building products company five
weeks to consider revisions to the trust with the U.S.
bankruptcy court judge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Official of A&amp;P,
   5 Others Are Accused
   Of Insider Trading
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   GAP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Securities and Exchange Commission accused
a former official of Great Atlantic &amp; Pacific Tea Co. and
five others of securities-law violations involving three A&amp;P
acquisitions.
   The civil suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan,
accuses Alan C. Goulding, formerly an A&amp;P senior executive
vice president and chief operating officer, of passing on
inside information that the others used in purchasing stock.
The insider-trading scheme allegedly lasted from May 1986
through March 1987. Mr. Goulding allegedly tipped the other
defendants off about A&amp;P's plans to acquire Shopwell Inc.,
Delchamps Inc., and Waldbaum Inc., as well as tipping them
off about higher-than-projected A&amp;P earnings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Goulding, 60 years old, of Allendale, N.J., and the
other defendants signed consent orders settling the case. In
the consent orders, the defendants neither denied nor
admitted any wrongdoing. The other defendants are Robert J.
Foley, 68, a food-marketing consultant in Redwood City,
Calif.; Joel Lopate, 56, of Miami; Murray Verlin, 68, part
owner of a food-distribution company, of Miami; Kurt Goldman,
65, of Boca Raton, Fla.; and Peter Goldman, 62, also of Boca
Raton.
   In the consent order, the defendants agreed to turn over
alleged insider-trading profits totaling $513,881, plus
interest of $189,880. They also will pay penalties totaling
$1.3 million. Mr. Goulding, who isn't accused of trading on
the inside information, will pay a penalty of $635,000, the
largest portion of the disgorged profits and penalties.
   Michael Himmel, an attorney for Mr. Goulding, said his
client left A&amp;P for health reasons, and that he settled the
case in order to put it behind him.
   An A&amp;P spokesman said Mr. Goulding's departure from A&amp;P
had nothing to do with the SEC allegations. He said the SEC's
investigation began after Mr. Goulding had taken early
retirement in July 1987.
   Pamela Rogers Chepiga, an attorney for Kurt Goldman and
Peter Goldman, said she doesn't believe her clients committed
inside trading because they received their information
second-hand, rather than directly from Mr. Goulding. But she
said the two men decided that the settlement "was
economically advisable."
   Lawrence Horn, an attorney for Mr. Lopate, declined to
comment. Attorneys for the other defendants couldn't be
reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mulroney Detects
   Progress in Talks
   Over Constitution
   ----
   By John Urquhart and G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney reported
a "small degree of progress" on the third day of negotiations
on Canada's constitutional impasse.
   Mr. Mulroney declined to disclose details of the
negotiations, which involve himself and 10 provincial
government leaders. But government officials said that much
of yesterday's negotiations involved differences over a
proposed constitutional amendment that would set new rules
for changing the federal Senate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed amendment is part of the constitutional
accord that was negotiated three years ago at Meech Lake,
Quebec. The accord, as drafted, is opposed by two provinces,
Newfoundland and Manitoba.
   The New Brunswick government dropped its opposition to the
accord Monday after receiving assurances from other provinces
that its constitutional concerns would be satisfactorily
addressed.
   Mr. Mulroney welcomed New Brunswick's move as a "very
welcome development." But at the start of yesterday's
negotiations several provincial premiers said they were
pessimistic about prospects for settlement of the impasse.
"Today my greatest fear is for Canada," said Alberta Premier
Don Getty. Prince Edward Island Premier Joseph Ghiz said
"We're at an impasse and I don't see a way out of it."
   Quebec Justice Minister Gil Remillard told reporters that
Quebec won't accept any changes to a Meech Lake proposal that
would recognize Quebec as a "distinct society" within Canada.
Such a designation would be used by the courts in
interpreting the constitution, but wouldn't give Quebec any
new law-making powers, federal officials said.
   Newfoundland and Manitoba have strong concerns about
giving Quebec special status in the constitution. They also
object to a proposed amendment that would give all provinces
a veto over reform of the federal Senate. Smaller provinces
have been seeking to gain greater influence over federal
government policies through a reformed Senate. Mr. Ghiz said
he disagreed with some of the provinces who consider that
"Senate reform is the key to the economic salvation of the
country." Ontario and Quebec currently have the greatest
representation in the Senate, whose members are appointed by
the prime minister.
   If the proposed Meech Lake accord is to take effect, it
needs to be ratified by all provincial legislatures by June
23, a legal deadline. If the accord isn't approved, many in
Quebec have said they will view the failure as a rebuff to
Quebec and press for the province's separation from the rest
of Canada.
   The Canadian Business Council on National Issues, which
represents the chief executives of some of Canada's largest
companies, said resolution of the constitutional impasse "has
now become critical" for the country.
   "The political costs of failure, so far, have been heavy,"
the council said. "The economic costs to all Canadians are
already apparent -- and rising with alarming speed." Some
businessmen have said some investments in Canada are being
postponed because of the uncertainty.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baldwin Securities'
   Stake in Partnership
   Remains Unvalued
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BAL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Baldwin Securities Corp. said its auditors
still can't figure out the value of its investment in the
limited partnership that investor Paul Bilzerian used to
acquire the former Singer Co.
   The company said the inability of its auditors, Seidman &amp;
Seidman, to place a value on Baldwin's investment in
Bilzerian Limited Partnership I, delayed the report of its
1989 results until yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Baldwin narrowed its losses in 1989 to $1.4 million, or 65
cents a share, from $2 million, or 84 cents a share, a year
earlier. Revenue fell 39% to $2.03 million from $3.35
million.
   Baldwin attributed the lower loss to an $843,000 interest
payment on a federal tax refund and reduced borrowings, lower
interest expenses and general cost-cutting. Baldwin's
expenses fell about 17% to $4.3 million in 1989 from $5.2
million in 1988.
   The auditors chose to disclaim an opinion on Baldwin's
1989 results as a result of the investment, which the company
carried on its books at $13 million cost. In addition,
Baldwin said it is studying how the federal Investment
Company Act of 1940 applies to its investment in Bilzerian
L.P. I. Baldwin in 1987 was deregistered by the Securities
and Exchange Commission as an investment company and became
an operating company.
   Bilzerian L.P. I, of which Baldwin owns 12.75%, is the
100% owner of Bicoastal Corp., the former Singer Co. that
filed for Chapter 11 protection last fall.
   Mr. Bilzerian currently is appealing a June 1989
conviction for securities fraud, conspiracy to commit tax
fraud and filing false disclosure statements with the SEC
involving stock transactions in 1985 and 1986. None of the
charges involved his takeover of Singer.
   Baldwin paid $13 million for its January 1988 investment,
which Mr. Bilzerian applied toward his takeover of Singer.
Baldwin hoped to make a profit on its stake after Mr.
Bilzerian sold off several of Singer's divisions.
   Once Bicoastal comes out of Chapter 11, "there will be one
more obstacle removed to figuring out the value of the
investment," said Henry Welt, Baldwin's counsel and
secretary.
   The company didn't break out fourth-quarter results. Mr.
Welt said he expects the company to release the quarter
results within two weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Air's May Traffic Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- United Airlines, a unit of UAL Corp., said its
May traffic rose 7.9% to 6.05 billion revenue passenger miles
from 5.6 billion miles a year earlier. A revenue passenger
mile is one paying passsenger flown one mile.
   The carrier's May load factor, or the percentage of
available seats occupied, rose to 63.4% from 62.6%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE SOVIET UNION ANNOUNCED unilateral arms cuts in Central
Europe.
   Shevardnadze, at an East-West conference in Copenhagen,
said Moscow would remove a significant number of its nuclear
weapons from the region "to create favorable conditions" for
U.S.-Soviet negotiations on short-range nuclear missiles. The
Soviet foreign minister also met with Secretary of State
Baker and suggested that they had made some progress on the
issue of German unification. In Moscow, the Soviet
legislature tentatively postponed adoption of a law to ease
limits on emigration, a move that could jeopardize a
Bush-Gorbachev summit agreement that would increase Soviet
trade with the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ethnic unrest flared in the Central Asian border city of
Osh as Uzbeks and Kirghiz clashed over land. At least 11
people were reported killed, and officials imposed a state of
emergency.
   ---
   New Jersey's Supreme Court ruled that the state's system
of financing public schools doesn't provide enough money for
poorer, urban districts. In striking down the system, the
court said the property taxbased system violates the state's
constitutional guarantee of a "thorough and efficient"
education.
   ---
   Rebels in Liberia seized a large rubber plantation as they
battled government troops for control of an area about 25
miles from Monrovia. In Washington, the State Department said
the U.S. military won't intervene in the conflict, even
though Navy warships are off the West African country's
coast, poised to help evacuate Americans.
   ---
   Two rival Cambodian leaders signed an agreement in Tokyo
calling for a conditional cease-fire to end 11 years of civil
war in the Southeast Asian nation. But the accord, reached by
Cambodia's Prime Minister Hun Sen and guerrilla coalition
leader Prince Sihanouk, was given little chance of success
because of a boycott by the Khmer Rouge.
   ---
   East German joblessness tripled since April and the
government, concerned about civil unrest, unveiled a program
to blunt the effects of an economic transition under the
planned German unification. Officials said factories will cut
work turns and wages to keep more people employed, and that a
new agency would oversee worker retraining.
   ---
   South Korea's Roh expressed hope that his talks Monday
with Gorbachev would lead to full diplomatic ties between
Seoul and Moscow, as well as peace on the Korean peninsula.
The presidents didn't set a timetable to normalize relations,
but some believe the move could come as soon as September.
   ---
   A Michigan doctor helped an Alzheimer's patient commit
suicide, allowing her to use a device to administer a lethal
dose of chemicals. The woman, 54, pressed a button on the
contraption, built by the physician, that released the
mixture, the doctor said. Some medical ethicists called the
doctor's actions immoral and perhaps illegal.
   ---
   Presbyterians adopted a statement of faith combining
Christian beliefs with environmental concerns and likening
God to both a mother and father. The Presbyterian Church
(U.S.A.) statement, which must be ratified by the Protestant
denomination's members, is the first since a 1983 merger
ended a 122-year split within the church.
   ---
   The Senate refused to limit debate on an omnibus
anti-crime bill. Democratic opponents are expected to try
again tomorrow to invoke cloture. Failure to do so could
extend debate on more than 240 pending amendments for weeks,
and prompt the Democratic leadership to pull the legislation.
   ---
   Mulroney held closed-door negotiations in a bid to win
over two holdout provincial governments and prevent the
collapse of talks aimed at resolving Canada's constitutional
impasse. The Canadian leader gained the support Monday of New
Brunswick, which also had opposed an accord granting
French-speaking Quebec special status.
   ---
   Mandela said South African President de Klerk would make
an "important statement" soon, raising speculation that the
Pretoria government would lift a four-year-old state of
emergency. The black nationalist leader made his remarks in
Botswana.
   ---
   India's police killed 13 suspected Sikh extremists in the
northern state of Punjab, and at least 22 other people were
killed in a bout of separatist violence. The deaths occurred
on the sixth anniversary of a raid by the Indian military on
the holiest Sikh shrine, the Golden Temple complex in
Amritsar.
   ---
   Ethiopia said it would allow a rebel-held Red Sea port to
be used for the delivery of food to millions of famine
victims. The strategic port of Masawa has been closed since
it was captured by the insurgents in February. The rebels,
meanwhile, warned of attacks if a plan to use Soviet planes
to transport U.S. relief supplies is carried out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Munsingwear Retains Adviser
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PIPR MUN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Munsingwear Inc. said it hired Piper,
Jaffray &amp; Hopwood Inc. as its investment banking adviser to
assist in the previously announced restructuring of the
apparel maker. Munsingwear, which said in May that it was
seeking buyers for its units that sell clothing for infants
and women, plans to focus on its men's division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Genus Inc.:
   Quarterly Loss Is Expected
   Of $4 Million-$5.1 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GGNS
</CO>
<LP>
   Genus Inc., blaming increased competition and lower
orders, said it expects a second-quarter loss on lower
revenue.
   The loss will be between $4 million and $5.1 million, or
35 cents to 45 cents a share, the company said, compared with
net income of $2.6 million, or 26 cents a share, a year
earlier. The Mountain View, Calif., semiconductor-equipment
company said it expects revenue of $9 million to $11 million,
down from $21.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Genus official said bookings of chipmaking equipment
called CVD tungsten systems are lower than a year earlier.
The company expects current business conditions to last
through 1990, he said.
   Genus's stock closed at $3.75 a share, down 50 cents, in
national over-the-counter trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Transgenic Sciences Inc.:
   Laboratory Animal Services
   Bought in Stock Transaction
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TSIN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Transgenic Sciences Inc. said it acquired Laboratory
Animal Services Inc. of Springfield, Va., for 142,618 common
shares.
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, Transgenic shares
ended at $3.625 bid, which would give the transaction an
indicated value of about $517,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Transgenic, a Worcester, Mass., genetic engineering
concern, said the acquisition will significantly improve its
results for the year and increase annual revenue about 10%.
   For the year ended June 30, 1989, Transgenic had a loss of
$1.2 million, or 40 cents a share, on revenue of $105,104.
   Laboratory Animal Services, a preclinical testing
facility, has a number of government clients, including the
National Cancer Institute.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Argyll Group PLC:
   Fiscal 1990 Pretax Profit
   Rose 27% to $381.2 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.AYL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Argyll Group PLC, a British food and drink retailer, said
pretax profit for the year ended March 31 rose 27% to #227.5
million ($381.2 million) from #178.7 million a year earlier,
citing big gains from its Safeway supermarket chain --
formerly part of the U.S. chain but now unrelated.
   Profit after taxes but before special items also rose 27%
to #159.2 million from #125.1 million. Per-share earnings
rose 25% to 17.2 pence from 13.8 pence. Profit attributable
to shareholders rose 30% to #163.3 million from #125.1
million, boosted by a #4.1 million gain from proceeds from an
asset sale; the year-earlier period didn't have any special
items.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales increased 12% to #4.1 billion from #3.7 billion.
   Operating profit rose 20% to #224.6 million from #187.8
million. Argyll said Safeway contributed 68% of total sales
and 71% of operating profit. Safeway sales increased 35% to
#2.8 billion and operating profit rose 50% to #158.8 million.
   The company proposed a final dividend of 4.80 pence,
making the total payout for the year 7.25 pence, up 17% from
6.20 pence a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McGraw-Hill Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MHP
</CO>
<LP>
   MCGRAW-HILL Inc. (New York) -- Vartan Gregorian, president
of Brown University, was elected a director of this
publishing and information-services company, bringing the
board to 16 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hourly Wages in Italy Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Hourly wages in Italy in March rose 1.1%
from February and 6.6% from a year earlier, Istat, the state
statistics bureau, said.
   The wage index, based on 1982 equaling 100, stood at 191.6
in March, up from 189.6 in February. On a year-to-year basis,
Istat said the increase owed partly to a change in
calculation methods in private-sector mining and cleaning
services industries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wages rose most quickly in the transportation and
communications sector, which posted an 8.8% increase. Wages
in public administration rose 7.8%, and industrial sector
wages rose 6.8%.
   Istat said wages outpaced inflation in March, when the
consumer price index rose 6.1% from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Lawyer Pleads
   Guilty to Felony Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Washington lawyer who made headlines last
summer when his private plane mysteriously crashed into the
Atlantic Ocean pleaded guilty to five felony counts,
including defrauding clients and submitting counterfeit
documents to federal agencies, a U.S. attorney said.
   A grand jury had indicted the lawyer, Thomas Root, in
March on various counts of counterfeiting federal documents,
forgery, and defrauding his clients, among other charges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Root's guilty plea in Washington federal court came a
day after he was indicted on 455 counts of securities fraud
and related charges by a separate grand jury in Nashville,
N.C.
   Mr. Root, 37, couldn't be reached for comment yesterday.
   His guilty plea pertained to his representation of clients
seeking radio licenses before the Federal Communications
Commission. As a result of the plea, he faces up to 35 years
in prison and $1.25 million in fines, U.S. Attorney Jay
Stephens said. No date for sentencing has been set.
   Mr. Root, in a July flight from Washington to North
Carolina, reportedly blacked out in the cockpit of his
single-engine plane. The plane eventually crashed off
Bermuda. Mr. Root survived, but he was pulled from the water
with a gunshot wound in his stomach.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   New York City Council Bill
   Would Ban Free Cigarettes
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK (AP) -- The City Council voted 33-to-0 yesterday
to prevent tobacco companies from distributing free
cigarettes to potential customers or smokers.
   The main target, according to the bill's sponsor, Sal
Albanese, (D., Brooklyn), was to stop people age 18 or
younger from being tempted to smoke. Mr. Albanese said
cigarettes are distributed free on street corners and that
youngsters can get them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "In ending this reprehensible practice," the Brooklyn
legislator said, "New York City will not only become the
largest jurisdiction in the nation to ban the free
distribution of tobacco products to the public, but as large
as the next six jurisdictions combined."
   Mr. Albanese said at least 15 other cities, including
Boston, Atlanta, Cincinnati and Austin, Texas, also bar the
free distribution of cigarettes.
   He said the legislation would bar individuals and
businesses from distributing tobacco products in public
places or at public events for free or at any price less than
the combined cost of the required taxes.
   The bill still requires the approval of Mayor David
Dinkins.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Coke Bottler
   Plans to Shuffle
   Some Territories
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   KO CCE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., in a shuffling of
franchise territories, said it agreed to buy a bottler in
Arkansas for $250 million and to sell properties in Ohio for
$120 million.
   Coca-Cola Enterprises, a major Coca-Coca bottler, agreed
in principle to buy Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Arkansas for
cash from Coca-Cola Co., the Atlanta-based soft-drink giant.
Coca-Cola owns about 49% of Coca-Cola Enterprises.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, Coca-Cola Enterprises agreed in
principle to sell Portsmouth Coca-Cola Bottling Co. and a
majority interest in the Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Ohio to
Johnston Coca-Cola Bottling Group Inc., a closely held
independent bottler based in Chattanooga, Tenn.
   For Coca-Cola Enterprises, the sale of the Ohio businesses
will result in a second-quarter pre-tax gain of $55 million.
The gain will be partly offset, however, by a $10 million
increase to reserves for potentially uncollectible accounts
receivable. A Coca-Cola Enterprises spokesman said the
company believed that adding to the reserves was prudent in
light of the increasingly leveraged nature of some of its
retail customers.
   Also in the second quarter, Coca-Cola Enterprises will
take about $9 million in charges related to standardizing its
computer information systems.
   The net result of the special items will be a per-share
gain of about 15 cents to 16 cents in the quarter, the
company said. In the year-ago second quarter, Coca-Cola
Enterprises earned 26 cents a share, when net was $38.8
million.
   Coca-Cola said it expects to report a gain of less than
one penny a share from the sale of the Arkansas bottler. A
Coca-Cola spokesman said the soft-drink company is selling
the bottler for the price it paid for it last year, plus some
related interest costs.
   In addition to parts of Texas, the territories covered by
the Arkansas bottler include the cities of Little Rock, Ark.,
and Shreveport, La., and other areas in Arkansas and
Louisiana. The purchase could provide benefits to Coca-Cola
Enterprises because those areas are contiguous to some of the
company's existing territories, particularly around big
markets like Memphis, Tenn., and Houston. Patching together
contiguous territories can allow a bottler to cut costs by
consolidating production, among other things.
   "Coca-Cola Enterprises has tried to concentrate its
efforts in the South and on the West Coast," said George
Thompson, an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
"This is just another effort in that direction."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Coca-Cola Enterprises closed at $15.875, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Order Backlog Declined
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian manufacturers recorded a 2.7% decline
in their order backlog in March from February, according to
Statistics Canada, a federal agency.
   March was the fifth consecutive month that manufacturers'
unfilled orders decreased. Much of the March decline was
attributed to a drop in the order backlogs of the
transportation equipment and machinery industries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New orders received by manufacturers in March declined
0.2% from February. New orders have declined in most months
since October. Manufacturers' shipments rose 1.1% in March
from February.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Gencorp Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GY
</CO>
<LP>
   GENCORP Inc. (Fairlawn, Ohio) -- D. Michael Steuert,
treasurer, was named to the additional posts of vice
president and chief financial officer at this aerospace,
automotive and polymer products concern. There had been no
chief financial officer since 1987, when the post was
eliminated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Citicorp
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CCI
</CO>
<LP>
   CITICORP (New York) -- David E. Cripps was named head of
offshore-investment management, a newly created post, at the
asset-management arm of Citibank Private Bank, a unit of this
banking holding company. Mr. Cripps was vice president and
manager of the global-investment-management department at
Manufacturer's Hanover Trust Co., New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Share Prices Finish About Unchanged;
   London Stocks Gain Slightly in Volatile Trading
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices bounced up from midday lows to finish
trading nearly flat.
   Most stock prices moved in a narrow range throughout the
day. Trading was moderate, traders said, reflecting
investors' caution ahead of tomorrow, the last trading day
for June stock index futures and options.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, London share prices gained slightly in
volatile, heavy-volume trading.
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues shed 3.75 points to
close at 32921.62, up from the intraday low of 32855. The
index gained 34.25 points Monday.
   At mid-morning Wednesday in Tokyo, the Nikkei index had
retreated 81.94 points to 32839.68.
   Tuesday's volume on the first section was estimated at 600
million shares, in line with 634 million shares Monday.
Decliners outnumbered advancers 544 to 394, while 183 issues
were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section, which gained 0.69 point Monday, fell 2.31
points, or 0.10%, to 2424.93.
   However, the buying spree continued on the second section
amid growing volume. The surge partly reflected the
participation of investors who abandoned the first section,
which can be swayed by trading linked to the June index
futures and options, traders said.
   The second section index rose 20.23 points, or 0.50%, to
4013.17, posting gains for the sixth consecutive day. The
index rose 18.32 points Monday. The section's volume was
estimated at 29 million shares, up from 20 million shares
Monday.
   The bitter memory of March's plunge on the Nikkei Index is
preventing investors from active buying this week, observers
said. In March, stock prices were pushed down by heavy
selling triggered by waves of selling linked to arbitrage
unwinding of March stock futures.
   As of May 25, the balance of June contracts buying was
518.154 billion yen ($3.4 billion), according to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, which began disclosing data on futures
trading in April to help ease investors' fear of the impact
of arbitrage selling.
   Selling related to the unwinding of June futures may pull
down stock prices, said Fumihiko Ishii, manager of investment
research at Nomura Securities. "But the drop would be only
temporary," he said.
   "In March, sentiment was extremely bearish and
expectations for future declines were dominant. It caused
selling by arbitragers that prompted more selling by general
investors," Mr. Ishii said.
   Bullish sentiment is stronger at the moment so if stock
prices fall, it won't shake the market's recent stability, he
added.
   Also, an increasing amount of positions have been rolled
over to the September contract without being unwound, he
said.
   Some fund managers said they will avoid buying
aggressively until Friday morning, as settlement prices for
June stock futures and options are determined by Friday's
opening prices.
   A fund manager at Dai-Ichi Mutual Life Co. said if stock
prices drop sharply ahead of the expiration of contracts,
many institutional investors will take it as a good buying
opportunity.
   Selling pressure is much lighter than in March as
institutional investors, the main sellers in March, haven't
bought much over the past months, he said.
   In addition to concern about the impact of the unwinding
of June futures contracts, profit-taking and uncertainty
about the direction of domestic interest rates and exchange
rates discouraged investors from continuing to buy
construction and shipbuilding shares, both of which are
considered interest rate-sensitive, traders said.
   Among construction stocks, Shimizu fell 30 yen to 2140
yen. Ohbayashi fell 10 yen to 1730 yen, and Kajima declined
20 yen to 1980 yen.
   Among shipbuilders, Hitachi Zosen dropped 15 yen to 875
yen, while Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries lost 40 yen
to 1190 yen.
   Investors shifted their attention to electrical shares and
other stocks with strong earnings predictions for the current
fiscal year, traders said. High-priced stocks were especially
popular as their prices usually move up sharply on a
relatively small amount of buying, traders said.
   Kyocera advanced 80 yen to 7950 yen, while Fanuc rose 150
yen to 7240 yen. Pioneer was up 200 yen at 6200 yen.
   Fuji Photo Film gained 60 yen to 4130 yen on expectations
of a gratis distribution, traders said.
   In London, meanwhile, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange
100 Share Index gained 1.1 points to 2380.1.
   Stocks opened strong, gaining 19.9 points to its peak just
after the start of official trading. The market got a further
boost from the firm opening of the stock futures sector, with
the June FT-SE 100-index trading at a 35-point premium to
cash.
   However, those gains were quickly eroded by the disclosure
of disappointing results by Great Portland, which prompted a
sell-off in the entire property sector. The FT-SE 100 index
shed 16.5 points at the day's low.
   However, a favorable opening on Wall Street, combined with
a firmer pound and the emergence of bargain-hunters in
London, helped that market steady up.
   Volume was 618.2 million shares, up from 430 million
shares Monday.
   The Financial Times 30 Share Index advanced 0.5 point to
1893.9.
   In the futures markets, the June FT-SE 100-index contract
ended at 2423, up from Monday's close of 2422.
   Many dealers still expect the stock market to creep
higher, in the absence of any negative news. Although they
mostly concede that the market is set for a correction,
sentiment appears to be favoring a further test of upside
potential.
   Among stocks to advance, Allied-Lyons gained 16 pence to
520 pence (27 cents to $8.71) on continued takeover rumors,
as did Scottish &amp; Newcastle, up 4 pence to 338 pence;
Guinness advanced 9 pence to 786 pence; while Midland Bank
rose 10 pence to 310 pence on stock shortage following a
recent market downgrading.
   Among stocks to drop, Pearson ended down 14 pence at 755
pence; and property stocks Land Securities fell 17 pence to
509 pence, and MEPC, dropped 17 pence to 501 pence.
   Meanwhile share prices closed higher in Frankfurt,
Stockholm, Brussels and Zurich, lower in Paris, mixed in
Amsterdam and unchanged in Milan. South African gold stocks
closed slightly up.
   And in Asian and Pacific markets, stocks ended higher in
Sydney and Wellington, mixed in Hong Kong, and lower in
Seoul, Taipei, Singapore and Manila.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                                Jun 4     Jun 1     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ......................  339.2     334.9   +  4.4
   Britain ...................  707.6     704.6   -  1.9
   Canada ....................  397.0     395.6   -  8.2
   Japan ..................... 1367.5    1369.2   - 17.4
   France ....................  584.9     584.9   +  3.2
   Germany ...................  296.6     296.6   +  4.0
   Hong Kong ................. 2347.6    2361.7   + 12.0
   Switzerland ...............  226.8     226.8   +  2.7
   Australia .................  310.9     307.6   -  6.1
   World index ...............  526.8     528.0   -  7.2
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Horizon Healthcare Corp.:
   Mortgages, Loan Refinanced
   With a New Lead Lender
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HHC
</CO>
<LP>
   Horizon Healthcare Corp. said it refinanced about $20
million in mortgages and an $8 million working-capital loan
with a new lead lender at lower interest rates.
   The Albuquerque, N.M.-based owner of nursing homes and
retirement facilities said its new mortgage and credit
agreement is led by HomeFed Bank of San Diego and carries an
interest rate 1 1/2 percentage points above the prime rate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previously, the company said it had about $4.4 million in
mortgages and a working-capital loan of about $8 million with
banks led by First National Bank of Boston. The
working-capital loan carried an interest rate of 3 1/2 points
above prime.
   The company said it will use additional cash from
refinancing the mortgages to reduce its payables.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Belgian Unemployment Falls
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Unemployment in Belgium fell to a nine-year
low of 8.8% in May from 9.1% in April and 9.2% a year
earlier, the Labor and Employment Ministry said.
   The latest rate was Belgium's lowest since November 1980,
when it also registered 8.8%. The ministry said 335,369
people were unemployed in May, down from 342,254 in April and
from 357,795 in May 1989. Unemployment among women was
203,107, or 12.9%; among men, it was 132,262, or 6%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Travel Agents Are Charged
   In a Frequent-Flier Case
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- The federal government charged three
Southern California travel agents with fraudulently taking
advantage of American Airlines' frequent-flier program.
   According to U.S. Attorney Robert L. Brosio, a 22-count
indictment alleged that the three agents created a list of
more than 50 fictitious passengers between 1986 and 1988,
then tampered with American's computer-system records by
crediting the fake travelers with miles that had been flown
by real people who weren't members of the airline's
AAdvantage program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An American spokeswoman claimed without elaborating that a
"significant" number of miles were involved. She said the
unit of Dallas-based AMR Corp. uncovered the alleged scheme
during a mid-flight cross-check of passenger names against
the names on checked baggage. It forwarded the case to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.
   The indictment charges James Robert Winkleman and Phillip
Ross Rinker of Woodland Hills, owners and operators of North
Ranch Travel agency, and Brenton Neil Mullins, of Playa Del
Rey, with conspiracy, wire and mail fraud and illegally using
fictitious names.
   Howard Cole, an attorney for Mr. Rinker, said he
"emphatically denies" any wrongdoing by his client. Attorneys
for Messrs. Mullins and Winkleman couldn't be reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bankruptcy Judge
   Advances Southmark
   Reorganization Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   SM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southmark Corp. said a federal bankruptcy judge
has approved its disclosure statement, allowing the company
to seek creditor and stockholder approval for its
reorganization plan.
   The real estate and thrift concern plans to reorganize
around its San Jacinto Savings Association thrift and to
liquidate most of its remaining assets. The company, which
filed last July for protection under Chapter 11 of the
federal Bankruptcy Code, said it will mail the disclosure
statements next week to about 127,000 creditors and security
holders, and collect votes until July 6.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Terms of the plan call for Southmark to pay about $300
million -- $76 million in cash, $75 million in secured notes,
$100 million in preferred stock, and the remainder in common
stock -- to settle approximately $2 billion in debts. As a
result, creditors are expected to receive a few pennies to
perhaps 32 cents for each dollar owed.
   As part of the reorganization, Southmark said, creditors
have chosen Glen Adams, a former executive of Great Western
Sugar Co., to become the new chief executive officer after
the plan is approved, succeeding Arthur G. Weiss. Mr. Weiss,
an Atlanta businessman, has led the company since its top two
officers were ousted in January 1989.
   The company said Mr. Adams is expected to join the company
soon. In addition, creditors have chosen as Southmark's new
directors Mr. Adams; Arthur Collins, founder and president of
a Connecticut real estate development company; Philip
Montgomery, president of a Dallas real estate management
company; and Richard J. Vossler Jr., an executive of a money
management firm that owns Southmark bonds.
   A confirmation hearing on the reorganization plan is
scheduled for July 11. The company has said it hopes to have
its reorganization plan approved before July 17, when an
agreement among the company, San Jacinto and federal
regulators expires. That agreement calls for Southmark to put
about $100 million more in assets into the Houston-based
thrift, though the company said recently that even those
assets won't bring the thrift into compliance with federal
regulations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan's Exports Fell in May
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- Exports in May fell 10.2% to US$5.64
billion -- the first double-digit decline since September
1988 -- and were off 1.05% from April, the government said.
   In the first five months of this year, exports totaled
US$26.59 billion, down 1% from a year earlier. Trade
officials cited mainly a stronger Taiwan dollar and rising
labor costs, which made locally manufactured products less
attractive to foreign buyers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Imports in May totaled US$4.38 billion, down 7.2% from a
year earlier. In the first five months, imports rose 5.5% to
US$22.75 billion, compared with a year earlier.
   May's trade surplus was US$1.26 billion, down 19.3% from a
year earlier but up 60.76% from April. In the first five
months, Taiwan registered a surplus of US$3.84 billion, off
27.5% from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial-Paper Rates
   Fall at Citicorp Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate fell to 8.1695% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.233% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $410 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.165% to 8.175%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said that the average rate fell to 8.1047%
at its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from
8.262% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $400.3 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.064% to 8.12%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bowne &amp; Co.:
   Net Doubled in First Period
   On 18% Increase in Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BNE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bowne &amp; Co., New York, reported a doubling of net income
for its fiscal first quarter on a sales increase of 18%,
citing the loss of two competitors and a "modest" increase in
demand for financial printing.
   Net income for the quarter ended April 30 was $4.3
million, or 25 cents a share, up from $2.2 million, or 12
cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter when there were
more shares outstanding. Sales were $57.5 million, compared
with $48.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the fiscal six months, earnings were $5.4 million, or
31 cents a share, compared with $2.7 million, or 15 cents a
share. Sales were $100.1 million, up 10% from $90.8 million.
Average shares outstanding decreased to about 17.2 million,
from about 18.1 million a year earlier.
   President Richard H. Koontz, in a statement, said
"consolidation in the financial printing industry became more
apparent during recent months with the disappearance of two
of our major competitors." In the past year, Sorg Inc. and
Charles P. Young Co. filed for bankruptcy-court protection
from creditors. Late last month, Bowne completed a previously
announced purchase of some Sorg assets, including the Sorg
name and trademark and some equipment, for $5.7 million.
   Bowne shares closed yesterday at $13, up $1.50, in
American Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Columbia S&amp;L's
   New Chief Criticizes
   Senior Management
   ---
   Harshfield Says Sick Thrift
   Is Candidate for Seizure
   By Federal Regulators
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- In a thrift industry version of a
celebrity roast, Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association's new
chief executive officer blasted his predecessors at
yesterday's annual meeting, as former chief executive Thomas
Spiegel and his father, Chairman Abraham Spiegel, watched.
   But shareholders of this insolvent thrift weren't
laughing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "All of us are victims," said shareholder Charlotte
Levine, who bought Columbia stock on April Fool's Day 1987 at
the urging of her Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. stockbroker.
"This company was used as a personal piggy bank" for the
Spiegel family, which owns about two-thirds of Columbia, she
said.
   "The association was placed in harm's way by direct senior
management actions," said Edward G. Harshfield, a longtime
financial services industry executive who was named president
and chief executive of Columbia in March.
   Mr. Harshfield was particularly gloomy about the thrift's
ability to avoid seizure by federal regulators, saying that
"remedial medicine could be too late, since the patient was
already comatose -- insolvent -- when the doctor arrived."
   Columbia has been scrambling to sell off its deteriorating
junk bond portfolio and certain preferred stock. Mr.
Harshfield said the portfolio has declined in value by
roughly $1 billion since the thrift purchased the bonds. The
portfolio had a value of about $2.9 billion as of March 31.
   "The reality of the matter is what price we get for the
bonds, to see what solution is left" for the S&amp;L, Mr.
Harshfield said, noting that the company has had "progress on
that front." The executive has said he believes the company
can get book value, "if not better," for the bonds. However,
thrift experts have said that even a sale at book value
wouldn't put a dent in Columbia's insolvency, and, therefore,
they expect regulators to take over the thrift.
   "We are capable of being taken over by federal regulators
at any moment, as it now stands," Mr. Harshfield acknowledged
in response to a shareholder's question.
   Although federal legislation changing the way a thrift's
assets are valued contributed to Columbia's insolvency, "only
3% of the loss was the cause of the government's action," Mr.
Harshfield said. Columbia had a $591.1 million loss in 1989
and a $293.3 million loss in the first quarter.
   After the meeting, Thomas Spiegel bristled at Mr.
Harshfield's suggestions of mismanagement, saying, "You can't
just sit there and point in time and say that 97% of the
losses are attributable to this. . . . Ed's been here for
three months, and he has his perspective. I have mine, being
here 13 years."
   The issue of alleged mismanagement was foremost on most
shareholders' minds yesterday, particularly in light of a
continuing probe by the Office of Thrift Supervision into
"certain expenses and activities of former association
officers."
   Mr. Spiegel confirmed the OTS investigation but declined
to discuss specifics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Auctions 10.50% Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government auctioned 850 million
Canadian dollars (US$723.9 million) of 10.50% bonds maturing
July 1, 2000.
   The average yield bid was 10.791% for a price equivalent
of 98.236.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Proceeds of the sale will be used for general government
purposes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coors, Its Output
   Crimped, to Buy
   Plant From Stroh
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   ACCOB LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Adolph Coors Co. said its brewing unit agreed to buy a
Memphis, Tenn., brewery from Detroit-based Stroh Brewery Co.
Terms weren't disclosed.
   The deal would give the Golden, Colo., company its first
large group of union workers in about 13 years and its first
beer ever brewed outside Colorado.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition, which is expected to be completed about
July 3, would alleviate the severe packaging-facility
shortages and imminent brewing-capacity shortages that Coors
faces because of its recent rapid growth. In the first
quarter, Coors shipments rose nearly 30% to four million
barrels from a year earlier. In 1989, its shipments grew
faster than those of any other major U.S. brewer, expanding
6.5% to 17.7 million barrels.
   Coors brews only in its Golden facility, which can brew
about 20 million barrels a year, and packages beer in Golden
and Elkton, Va. Coors's major problem now is its limited
packaging capacity, as the company struggles to fill its
bottles and cans for the peak summer season. The packaging
facilities at both locations are being operated at or above
design capacity to meet demand, said Peter Coors, president
of the brewing unit, who noted that Coors distributors aren't
getting all the beer they want in the packages they want.
   Coors said it plans to increase its Golden brewing
capacity to about 28 million barrels a year, but this
expansion won't be completed until 1995. Mr. Coors said
Stroh's 1971-vintage Memphis brewery has a capacity of 5.5
million barrels and can probably be retrofitted and ready to
produce and package Coors products for next year's summer
season. He said the company hasn't determined what beer or
how much it would brew in Memphis.
   Coors would inherit a unionized work force and a union
contract at the Memphis brewery. Coors beer was the subject
of a 10-year boycott by the AFL-CIO after a 1977 strike, and
now its only union workers are some Operating Engineers in
Golden. The Teamsters organized a vote of Coors brewery
workers in December 1988, after the union boycott was ended,
but 73% of the employees rejected union representation.
   "We have no aversion to having unions," Mr. Coors said.
Coors managers began holding talks with the Teamsters and the
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers Conference representatives in
Memphis yesterday, he said.
   The planned sale would leave troubled Stroh with five
breweries. Stroh's 1989 shipments fell nearly 10% to about
18.4 million barrels from a year earlier. The company
acquired many brands and some breweries throughout the 1980s
by buying other brewers such as Schlitz, but the family-owned
company wasn't able to catch up with the market leaders,
Anheuser-Busch Cos. and Miller Brewing Co., or match the
marketing dollars of the two giants. In 1989, Stroh, the
nation's fourth-largest brewer in terms of shipments,
retained Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. to try to help sell the company
or some of its assets.
   Last September, Coors, the third-largest brewer in the
U.S., signed a deal to buy most of Stroh for about $425
million, but that agreement expired in December without a
final deal. People close to the negotiations have said that
the agreement fell apart during due-diligence investigations,
which disclosed a substantially weaker Stroh than Coors
executives had anticipated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN MDEST EUROP TAXES LABOR J.SZU J.TYE J.MIB J.MHI
J.MBT JAPNY
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO'S NUCLEAR-POWER PLANS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry
unveiled a plan to build 40 nuclear-power plants in Japan
over the next 20 years to almost double the country's
reliance on nuclear power to 16.7% of total primary energy
supplies. It already has 38.
   But energy analysts called the plan impractical because
resistance to nuclear plants means such a number cannot be
built and Japan will continue to rely on pollution-causing
coal and oil.
   "Building that many nuclear plants is just a political
target which is almost impossible to achieve," said an
analyst at the Japanese Institute of Middle Eastern
Economies.
   Critics say Japan is unlikely to complete even its
existing plan of building another 16 stations by the year
2000 because of the anti-nuclear movement.
                                                                                                       

   LEBANON'S DESTROYED GENERATION
                                                                                                       

   The Unicef representative in Lebanon said the Lebanese
civil war has killed 40,000 children and destroyed an entire
generation. The representative, Andre Roberfroid, said: "In
this country, in 15 years of war, no less than 40,000
children have been killed, many more wounded, handicapped or
crippled. Fifteen years is the age at which childhood ends .
. . This means that one complete generation of children in
Lebanon has been actually living all its life in an
environment of war and aggression."
                                                                                                       

   BRITAIN'S LORDS SAY NO
                                                                                                       

   Britain's House of Lords defeated a bill that would have
allowed prosecutions of suspected World War II criminals. The
207-74 vote to throw out the measure came after it had been
overwhelmingly adopted by the House of Commons. The Lords
argued that it was wrong to make retroactive laws, that fair
trials would be impossible because of the age of witnesses
and that the legislation would lead to "show trials." But the
Lords' powers are limited to delaying bills for a year, and
the government now must decide whether to reintroduce the
bill in the autumn and force it through the Lords.
                                                                                                       

   IRAQ TO END INHERITANCE TAX
                                                                                                       

   Iraq's National Assembly voted to abolish the inheritance
tax, the state-run news media reported. The Al-Jumhouriya
daily said Deputy Prime Minister Saadoun Hamadi advocated the
move because "the abolishing of this tax will work as a
catalyst to encourage wealthy people to invest their money
and help the growth of the economic cycle." The tax was
levied at a rate of between 5% and 50% of the value of
legacies. In 1988, the government collected the equivalent of
about $60 million from the tax.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE SPACE STAKE
                                                                                                       

   Six Japanese companies -- Mitsubishi Corp., Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd., Japan Air Lines, Mitsubishi Trust &amp;
Banking Corp., Shimizu Corp. and Toyo Engineering Corp. --
will buy a 10% share of a U.S. firm planning to lease room in
space missions, a Mitsubishi Corp. spokesman said. The six
companies will buy $10 million of a new stock issue of
Washington, D.C.-based Spacehab Corp., the spokesman said. He
said Spacehab plans to lease containers on spaceships to let
companies and others conduct experiments under weightless
conditions.
                                                                                                       

   VENICE CONTROVERSY CONTINUES
                                                                                                       

   Italy said it would not withdraw its controversial bid for
Venice to be the site of Expo 2000 but added that much of the
world's fair would be held outside the city's historic
center.
   Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti told parliament that if
the Paris-based International Exhibition Bureau chose Venice
the fair would be centered on the mainland cities of Marghera
and Mestre and other parts of the Veneto region. The Paris
exposition bureau is scheduled to make a decision between
Venice, Toronto and Hanover, West Germany, on June 14.
   The proposal to hold the fair in Venice sparked an uproar
from lovers of the city around the world. Opponents argued
that Venice would be irreversibly damaged by new construction
and a massive influx of tourists.
   The European Community's environment commissioner, Carlo
Ripa de Meana, said Italy, due to assume the rotating
presidency of the EC July 1 for six months, will face major
problems in this role if it doesn't withdraw its bid.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   On average, every British man, woman and child over age 10
drinks three cups of tea daily, according to the Tea
Council's annual report. The report said tea accounts for
43.9% of everything the British drink, not counting water. .
. . About two million workers in Greece are expected to
participate in a 24-hour general strike today. Public
services, banking, commerce and transportation are expected
to be seriously disrupted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Nielsen Will Change Way
   It Reports Black Audiences
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TRB DNB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Responding to concern that black television
viewership is underreported, Nielsen Media Research said it
would improve the way it measures the size of minority
audiences.
   The changes, to take effect next year, will include
breaking out black demographics in monthly reports on TV show
ratings. Under the new system, for instance, there will be
categories such as black men 18-to-49 years old. Currently,
there is no such break-out.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nielsen also proposed introducing a national black
"pocketpiece" report including household and demographic
information based on TV viewing among blacks. Such reports on
the general viewing audience are already produced for
broadcasters.
   Separately, Tribune Entertainment Co, a division of
Tribune Co., distributor of such shows as "Soul Train" and
"Dionne &amp; Friends" with singer Dionne Warwick, said it would
begin an awareness campaign to encourage blacks to
participate in viewing surveys.
   Also participating in the campaign are two advertising
agencies, Burrell Advertising Inc. and Uniworld Group Inc.
One possibility is to get a rap singing group to appear in
public-service announcements.
   Blacks return Nielsen diaries at a 42% response rate,
compared with the so-called general market, where diary
returns run at a 55% rate, according to David Woolfson, vice
president of new business for Nielsen Media Research, a
subsidiary of Dun &amp; Bradstreet Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Qintex Unit
   Approves Assets Sale
   For Over $65 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   A.QAL QNTXQ A.QNT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Qintex Entertainment Inc., which
last October filed for bankruptcy-law protection, said its
board approved the sale of operating assets for more than $65
million. The company is a unit of Qintex Ltd.
   According to a Qintex spokesman, the debt outstanding of
the company as of Oct. 31 totaled $91.8 million. The company
said funds from the asset sales will be allocated to
creditors in accordance with the reorganization plan to be
filed with the bankruptcy court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Qintex, which produces and distributes filmed
entertainment products, said it agreed to sell its
entertainment assets for $42.4 million to RHI Entertainment
Inc., a private, New York-based television production
company. The sale includes the company's library, accounts
receivable, development projects and $7 million cash, Qintex
said. The Qintex spokesman said RHI's owners include Robert
Halmi Sr., a Qintex co-chairman of the board.
   Qintex said HR Broadcasting Inc., a private owner and
operator of independent television stations, of which Qintex
has an interest in the form of notes and convertible
debentures, will sell some assets. Qintex said as a result,
it would receive at least $23 million from HR Broadcasting's
sale to ABRY Communications, a Boston-based private owner of
independent television stations.
   The sale includes television stations WTTO in Birmingham,
Ala., and WCGV in Milwaukee.
   Qintex Entertainment is 43%-owned by Qintex Australia, a
unit of Qintex Ltd., based in Brisbane, Australia. Both sales
are subject to, among other things, regulatory approvals and
approval of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- NL Industries Inc.:
   West German Unit Signs
   $945.6 Million Loan Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NL
</CO>
<LP>
   NL Industries Inc., Houston, said its Kronos International
Inc. unit, based in Leverkusen, West Germany, signed a
seven-year term-loan agreement for 1.6 billion marks ($945.6
million), which will be used for debt repayment and other
corporate purposes.
   The specialty chemicals concern, which is controlled by
the Dallas investor Harold C. Simmons, last year used
proceeds from a loan denominated in marks in part to buy
substantial stakes in Lockheed Corp. and Georgia Gulf Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An executive with Mr. Simmons's holding company, Valhi
Inc., said the loan, which matures in June 1997, will
increase NL's cash position by about $200 million, some of
which will be used for NL's new Lake Charles, La., chemical
plant. The proceeds also will be used to repay about $602
million of existing West German mark financing. Kronos
generates about 55% of the company's sales and a substantial
amount of its cash flow.
   The bank group is led by Hypobank International S.A. and
Banque Paribas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDIC Again Rejects
   Offer for Its 26% Stake
   In Continental Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CBK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said it
rejected an offer for its 26% stake in Continental Bank Corp.
made by private investors, Continental and some of its
executives.
   The offer, a Continental official said, was made at about
$15 a share, or near market price last week, for a total of
more than $200 million for the equivalent of 14.2 million
shares that the FDIC owns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FDIC said it "remains committed to realizing full
value for its holdings, and will explore all options for
divesting its ownership in the company."
   The FDIC became a shareholder of Chicago-based Continental
as part of the agency's 1984 rescue of the former Continental
Illinois Corp., the holding company for Continental Illinois
National Bank &amp; Trust Co.
   Along with the market, Continental stock has rallied since
last week. Yesterday, in composite trading on the New York
Stock Exchange, Continental's common closed at $17, up $1, on
volume of 194,400 shares.
   Thomas C. Theobald, Continental's chairman and chief
executive officer, said in a statement: "I'm dumbfounded that
in a little more than six months the FDIC has passed up two
legitimate opportunities to sell its minority interest in
Continental. Not only have they failed to turn their asset
into cash, but they've continued ownership in a healthy bank,
which is a wholly unwarranted role for a regulator."
   The FDIC turned down a proposal from Continental last fall
to buy the agency's stake through a public offering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vote in Senate to Limit
   Debate on Crime Bill Fails
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Senate proponents of an omnibus anti-crime
bill failed to limit debate on the legislation, which could
end up being buried under a mountain of proposed amendments.
   The vote was 54-37 to restrict further debate to 30 hours,
but under Senate rules, 60 votes are needed to impose the
limit. Democratic proponents of the bill are expected to try
again to limit debate in a vote scheduled for tomorrow
morning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday's vote was a short-term victory for opponents of
gun control, who failed last week to defeat a provision that
would impose a three-year ban on nine types of semi-automatic
"assault" weapons. If cloture isn't achieved, debate on more
than 240 pending amendments could last for weeks, forcing the
Senate's Democratic leadership to pull the omnibus bill.
   Democratic staff members said the party's leadership
believes that cloture "is within reach," noting that nine
senators didn't vote yesterday and that several others may be
persuaded to switch their votes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Justice Department
   Decides It Won't Join
   Suit Against Hughes
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GMH GM
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- The U.S. Justice Department decided it
wouldn't join a lawsuit against Hughes Aircraft Co. brought
by a Hughes employee who accused the company of overcharging
the government $50 million on development of radar systems
for military aircraft.
   The suit was filed in federal court in Los Angeles last
year by William J. Schumer, a former contracts manager for
Hughes's radar systems group. Mr. Schumer is currently
assistant contracts manager for Hughes missile systems group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit alleged that between 1983 and 1988, Hughes
shifted costs from contracts for the F-15 jet fighter to
contracts for similar work on the B-2 stealth bomber and the
F-18 jet fighter. Hughes is a unit of General Motors Corp.
   Hughes has denied any wrongdoing. The suit is the third
filed against Hughes under the False Claims Act that the
government has declined to join since February. The
government hasn't yet taken any action on a fourth such suit
filed against the company last year, Hughes said.
   Dean Francis Pace, a Los Angeles attorney for Mr. Schumer,
said he hadn't been informed of the government action.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Intergroup Chairman to Resign
   After Firm Sheds All Units but FoxMeyer
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   NII WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- National Intergroup Inc.'s embattled
chairman, Howard M. "Pete" Love, agreed to step down next
year once the company sheds all but its FoxMeyer wholesale
drug distribution business.
   It's unclear whether the moves will be enough to appease
dissident shareholders led by Centaur Partners Group, which
has demanded Mr. Love's resignation. Centaur has been waging
a proxy fight to gain control of the board, oust Mr. Love and
liquidate the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, New York-based Centaur said that while it
was "pleased that the accountability we have demanded has
brought this action," it said the entire company should be
liquidated, including FoxMeyer. Centaur said it was awaiting
"the substance of the board's program" and would continue to
seek the election of its slate of directors at National
Intergroup's July 25 annual meeting.
   Still, institutional investors may be willing to let
National Intergroup carry out its restructuring program,
which guarantees that Mr. Love will leave and promises that
asset sales will result in payment of a special dividend or
in a stock buy-back.
   Though several investors were pleased by the surprise
announcement, analysts were generally uncertain how much
additional value, if any, it would provide for shareholders.
National Intergroup didn't specify the size of any special
dividend, which Centaur noted in its response. And the sums
that the company would realize through the disposition of
assets were unclear.
   Gregory Drahuschak, an analyst with Butcher &amp; Singer Inc.,
speculated that a pure FoxMeyer company could be worth
between $25 and $30 a share once it achieves operating
margins comparable with others in the drug distribution
industry. That compares with National Intergroup's closing
price yesterday of $17.375, up $2.50, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. FoxMeyer's operating margins as a
percentage of sales are 1.74%, he said, compared with an
industry average of 2.5%.
   For his part, Mr. Love said he will stay on until the
company sells its Ben Franklin stores, a chain of franchised
general merchandise stores, and its Permian Partners Limited
Partnership oil operation. That should be completed by March
31, 1991, at which time the company would be renamed FoxMeyer
Corp., with annual sales of close to $3 billion and
headquarters in Dallas. Mr. Love said he will recommend that
Robert L. King, currently president and chief executive
officer of FoxMeyer Drug Co., become chief executive of
FoxMeyer Corp.
   Mr. Love said in an interview that he wasn't forced out
but that he planned to leave because his job of creating a
drug distribution company will have been finished.
   "I've completed what I started out to do," he said. "We've
shifted from a metals to a drug distribution company."
   The executive insisted the timing had nothing to do with
next month's annual meeting and expected confrontation with
Centaur. Mr. Love said the company couldn't proceed with its
restructuring until it completed negotiations for the sale of
most of its interest in National Steel Corp. to partner NKK
Corp. That sale, which will leave NKK with 90% of the steel
operations and National Intergroup with 10%, was announced in
April.
   "Ownership of steel had been a major stumbling block to
move ahead," Mr. Love said.
   Still, Mr. Love and the board clearly realized he had
become more of a liability than an asset. The company has
been rocked by losses in six of the last eight years, in part
because of a buying spree that ultimately shifted the focus
of National Intergroup from metals to drugs. The pressure
mounted last year, when another disgruntled shareholder
group, Walker Street Associates, demanded Mr. Love's
resignation describing him as an absentee manager. The group
also blasted directors, describing some of them as Mr. Love's
"hunting, fishing and golfing" buddies, for letting Mr. Love
continue at the helm.
   Board member Douglas Danforth said the board felt no
pressure to remove Mr. Love and that the 60-year-old chairman
told the board he planned to step down at a recent directors'
meeting. "We didn't ask him. We didn't feel pressure," Mr.
Danforth said. "We wanted Pete to stay and guide us through
the divestitures."
   Nevertheless, some investors had grown impatient with
management. Mr. Love said that during a recent round of talks
with institutional holders regarding the Centaur proxy
solicitation, some thought the restructuring was "taking
longer than perhaps some thought it should."
   Institutional investors expressed satisfaction with the
announcement. "We're very pleased," said Ernie Kiehne,
co-manager of the Legg Mason Value Trust. "We think the
values of the company are considerable when various assets
are restructured or sold, leaving FoxMeyer."
   Although Centaur advocates liquidation, National
Intergroup said FoxMeyer should be retained, at least for
now. "We believe FoxMeyer will be worth far more in the
future than what we could sell it for now," the company said.
Selling the company now would also jeopardize tax credits
that could be used to shelter FoxMeyer's future earnings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Agency
   Reinsures GE Project
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN GE LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Multilateral Investment Guaranty Agency,
a World Bank affiliate, said it has approved a $30 million
reinsurance contract covering investments by General Electric
Co. in an electric lightbulb manufacturing venture in
Hungary.
   The Overseas Private Investment Corp., a U.S. government
agency, previously authorized $130 million in investment
insurance guarantees for the project. The World Bank agency,
in effect, will assume $30 million of the OPIC risk. Covered
risks include possible losses arising from currency transfers
and expropriation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GE announced earlier that it was joining with the
Hungarian Credit Bank in a joint venture to acquire,
modernize and expand Tungsram Co., a Hungarian manufacturer
of lighting products.
   The World Bank agency said it also will provide $50
million in reinsurance coverage for a joint venture in Chile.
Canada's Export Development Corp. previously authorized a
$158 million insurance policy to support a $276 million
investment by Placer Dome Inc. in the gold and silver mining
venture in the Chilean province of Copiapo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fluor Unit and Firm
   In East Germany Set
   Joint-Venture Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLR EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Fluor Corp. said that its Fluor Daniel
G.m.b.H. West German unit signed a letter of intent with
Ingenieurbetrieb Anlagenbau Leipzig (IAL) to jointly pursue
hydrocarbon, industrial, and other projects in East Germany
and other East European countries.
   A Fluor spokeswoman said the company was already
negotiating two "small" contracts with IAL, the largest East
German engineering and construction-services company. The
Fluor spokeswoman said the company has had a West German
office for 30 years. The current letter of intent, she said,
"is a first step, a good way to gain experience in a new
market."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Fluor reported that earnings in the
second-quarter ended April 30 jumped 59% to $38 million, or
47 cents a share, compared with $23.9 million, or 30 cents a
year ago on fewer shares outstanding. Revenues for the
quarter climbed 12% to $1.83 billion, from last year's $1.63
billion.
   For the six months ended April 30, the engineering,
construction, and technical services company reported that
net income rose 45% to $66.2 million, or 82 cents a share,
compared with $45.5 million, or 57 cents a share. Revenues
rose 21% to $3.71 billion, compared with $3.05 billion a year
ago.
   The spokeswoman said the main reason for the sharp rise in
net income was a $19 million, or 23 cents a share, reversal
of tax reserves no longer required.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Regency Cruises Sees
   Loss on Operations
   In the Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SHIP
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Regency Cruises Inc. said it expects to report
a second-quarter operating loss, reflecting unrest in Latin
America, bad Caribbean weather and a ship that ran aground
last month.
   William Schanz, the company's chairman, disclosed the
expected loss at the company's annual meeting, but didn't
provide further details, including whether Regency will
report a net loss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He did say that Regency's cruise business off the coast of
Alaska is "currently booked at approximately 85% of
capacity." Most of that business is done in the third
quarter, which a spokesman said is traditionally the
company's best period.
   A second-quarter loss would be Regency's third consecutive
quarterly deficit. In the first quarter, Regency had a loss
of $2 million, or nine cents a share; in last year's fourth
period, the company had a loss of $1.2 million, or five cents
a share.
   The company pegged its first-quarter and second-quarter
woes to a lack of tour interest in Panama, prior to and
following the U.S. invasion; a State Department advisory that
Americans steer clear of Colombia; and Hurricane Hugo, which
devastated the Caribbean.
   Last month, an electrical snafu forced one of Regency's
three ships, the Regent Star, to run aground in Delaware Bay.
The company subsequently canceled a five-day cruise, and
scratched a two-day cruise because of a small fire on the
ship three days later.
   But a spokesman said things could improve by the third
quarter because Alaska cruise bookings are strong. And
Regency has pulled out of the problem-plagued Caribbean,
opting instead for a potentially more lucrative New
York-Montreal route.
   Meanwhile, holders at the meeting approved adoption of a
stock-option incentive plan for executives that calls for the
issuance of one million new common shares. Holders also
re-elected three directors to three-year terms, including Mr.
Schanz, Fred A. Mayer and Roland J. Hawkins.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES EUROP CANDA LATAM FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TAX TREATIES move to center stage. Backers hope no drama
will develop.
   The Senate Foreign Relations Committee tentatively plans a
hearing June 14 on six long-awaited pacts negotiated by the
Treasury and backed on behalf of business generally by the
National Foreign Trade Council. Those with West Germany,
India, and Spain are especially notable in U.S. efforts to
eliminate double taxation of overseas income. Treaties with
Finland, Indonesia, and Tunisia also are up for Senate
ratification.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In such pacts, the U.S. government acts to protect U.S.
businesses, notes Robert T. Cole, a Washington lawyer and
trade-council member. The Treasury now is engaged in several
major negotiations: With Canada, to update the current treaty
in line with a recent free-trade agreement. With Mexico, for
an initial pact that could be a model for Latin America. With
the Netherlands, to halt abuses of the current pact by
nationals of non-treaty nations. With the Soviet Union, to
aid investment there.
   The Treasury says it has active negotiations with 19
countries and plans talks with seven more.
                                                                                                       

   TREATIES WITH GERMANY and India resolve talks stretching
back decades.
   Treasury aides say the successor to the 1954 treaty with
Germany should serve in many ways as the U.S.'s model for
agreements with developed nations. But a unique arbitration
feature is included just as a test. "We want to see how it
works before we put it in another treaty," says a Treasury
official. The clause allows for binding arbitration in a tax
dispute if both countries and the taxpayer agree. It's an
"excellent" innovation, Washington lawyer Cole says.
   It took nearly 30 years to negotiate the U.S.'s first tax
pact with India. The terms aren't as favorable as those the
U.S. has with developed countries; but they are improvements
in most respects from nontreaty taxation, the Treasury says,
after major concessions by both sides. The treaty with Spain,
the U.S.'s first, is expected to enhance U.S. investment in
that fast-growing European-common-market economy.
                                                                                                       

   BUT HAPPY ENDINGS aren't guaranteed for treaties or
taxpayers.
   Shipping-container lessors contend the Treasury let them
down. Charles Tingley, president of Transamerica Leasing and
of the Institute of International Container Lessors, a trade
group, plans to testify against provisions that let India and
Indonesia withhold 10% taxes on lease fees leaving their
shores. Most pacts treat containers like ship and air
transport-taxable only at home. Many treaty backers fret that
this attack could hold up the eagerly awaited benefits of the
two treaties.
   Also, while it isn't clear just how big the issue is,
Germany has held up its ratification proceedings to emphasize
its concern about a 1988 U.S. estate-tax law. The law denies
the full marital exemption to surviving spouses who aren't
U.S. citizens. Germany and the Treasury have exchanged notes
on the issue.
   Opposition has faded in the U.S. to ratification of a
seventh treaty under which the U.S. would share tax data with
several European countries.
                                                                                                       

   A MILLION FILERS, including those who report business
income on personal returns, won't have to file Form 4562 for
depreciation of business assets next year. Research Institute
of America reports the IRS plans to drop the use of Form 4562
for certain assets of noncorporate taxpayers. Depreciation
still will have to be figured and reported on returns, of
course.
                                                                                                       

   CORDLESS PHONES can trip you up. IRS investigators must
get search warrants to intercept conversations carried wholly
or in part by phone wires -- but not to listen to radio
transmissions. Thus, the investigators' manual now notes,
they don't need warrants to spy on transmissions between a
cordless phone and its base unit.
                                                                                                       

   TAXPAYER MOVEMENTS are alive and growing, the National
Taxpayers Union declares. It says initiatives to restrict or
control state and local taxes or spending will be or are
"very likely" to be on 1990 ballots in California, Colorado,
Illinois, Massachusetts, Nebraska, Nevada, Oregon, and Utah.
                                                                                                       

   NEXT MONEY LAUNDERER: Step up and give the teller your
real name.
   In the war on money laundering and tax evasion, a 1988 law
requires financial institutions to verify and record the
identity of anyone buying bank, cashier's, or traveler's
checks or money orders for $3,000 or more in cash. The
Treasury has issued final rules, effective Aug. 13, telling
banks and others how to keep logs of these transactions for
Treasury perusal.
   If the buyer has an account, the bank must verify that and
log the name, account number, and details of the purchase. If
the buyer has no account, he must show a document (such as a
driving license) with his address and also supply for logging
his Social Security or alien ID number, birth date, and other
data and identify anyone for whom he is acting. A customer
who doesn't provide the information must not be served. Banks
are to watch for and log multiple purchases totaling $3,000
on the same day.
   Know your customers, the Treasury advises banks, and
report suspicious purchases or actions.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: The IRS will promote electronic return filing at a
conference and exhibition for preparers, technology vendors,
and others July 25 and 26 in Dallas. . . . Vermont's amnesty
waiver of penalties for tax delinquents will end June 25.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Drexel Expected
   To Offer Plan
   To Creditors
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. is expected
to present a proposed reorganization plan to its creditors
today that would pay them 100 cents on the dollar.
   The company, which filed under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code on Feb. 13, has told its creditors'
committee, its shareholders' committee and the Securities and
Exchange Commission that it will unveil the proposal at 2
p.m. at the office of Drexel's bankruptcy-law firm, Weil,
Gotshal &amp; Manges in Manhattan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed reorganization plan would be the first step
in negotiating the final plan to pay Drexel creditors and
possibly allow Drexel to emerge from Chapter 11 as an
operating company. The two committees already have begun work
on their own proposals.
   People familiar with the case said Drexel had sent letters
to the two committees and to the SEC advising them that a
proposal would be made today.
   Drexel's proposal is expected to say that creditors will
be paid 100 cents on the dollar. The proposal would involve a
senior series of notes secured by Drexel assets, an attorney
familiar with the case said. Drexel's assets have an
estimated value of about $200 million.
   As part of the plan, Drexel also is expected to set aside
money to pay estimated claims stemming from approximately 400
lawsuits pending against the company.
   Last night, Drexel's attorneys couldn't be reached for
comment.
   As part of the plan, Drexel is expected to propose that
the company continue operating under current management,
essentially to oversee efforts to pay off creditors.
   Barry Dichter, an attorney for the central bank of
Portugal, said he and other creditors are likely to oppose a
plan that leaves current management in place. A member of one
of the committees said the creditors and shareholders
probably would seek some way to oversee the management of any
operating company that emerges.
   Drexel specifically invited only the SEC and members of
creditors' and shareholders' reorganization subcommittees to
the unveiling of the proposal. But in notifying the groups,
Drexel said representatives of any interested party would be
welcome. As a result, hundreds of attorneys are expected to
show up, that may make it difficult for any real discussion
of the plan to take place.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rival Operations --
   Competitive Anomaly:
   Consumers Pay More
   In 2-Hospital Towns
   ---
   In Kalamazoo, a Nasty War
   Means Duplicated Efforts;
   Big Business Gets Fed Up
   ---
   A Dogfight Over Helicopters
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   UPJ
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   KALAMAZOO, Mich. -- When the two archrival hospitals here
found out that both planned to launch helicopter ambulance
services, they flew into action. Borgess Medical Center
quickly found a copter, called photographers and was first to
get pictures in the local paper.
   But Bronson Methodist Hospital struck back, getting its
chopper into the air first and proudly proclaiming a nurse
aboard every flight.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Borgess retaliated three months later, boasting a doctor
on every trip. Within a year, each hospital had upgraded to
twin-engine choppers -- making the announcement the same
week. "There are only 90 helicopter ambulances in the whole
country," an exasperated executive of Upjohn Co., the city's
largest employer, said at the time, "and two of them are
here."
   Not to mention two heart programs, two maternity wards,
two state-of-the-art emergency rooms, and two radiology
services. There were even two billboard campaigns. Robert
Fabi, a respected neurologist who has practiced here for more
than 20 years, describes the situation in verse: "Given the
history of Kalamazoo, if there is one, there will be two."
   In most businesses, competition cuts prices. But hospital
bills in Kalamazoo, a metropolitan area of 200,000 between
Detroit and Chicago, are the second highest in Michigan and
among the highest in the nation. In general, hospital costs
in two-hospital towns like Kalamazoo are 30% higher than in
one-hospital communities, according to a survey by Booz-Allen
&amp; Hamilton, Chicago consultants. "Kalamazoo is a microcosm of
the national environment," says Gary Alquist, a Booz-Allen
vice president and health-care specialist.
   Charges per admission in 1988 averaged $6,112, 55% higher
than in nearby Grand Rapids and 34% above the national
average for metropolitan areas. Health costs at James River
Corp.'s Kalamazoo paper packaging operations rank in the top
three of the company's 15 similar units nationwide. When it
comes to further expansion, health costs put the area "at a
competitive disadvantage versus some of the other communities
we do business in," says Norman Ryan, a James River
executive.
   The costs are a threat to both corporate profits and the
region's economic growth. Total medical costs here rose
nearly 15% last year at Upjohn, a pharmaceutical concern, and
20% at both Stryker Corp., a medical equipment company, and
FabriKal, a plastic products maker. First of America Corp., a
bank holding company, budgeted a 45% increase in costs this
year from 1989. "We have good medical care," says Theodore
Cooper, chairman, president and chief executive of Upjohn.
"We need it to be priced right."
   As a result, Upjohn and other major businesses here have
tried hard to get the hospitals to cooperate. But nearly all
the efforts have failed. Last fall, the most ambitious -- a
two-year effort to merge the hospitals, one Catholic and one
Methodist -- collapsed over the issue of abortion.
   Bronson and Borgess haven't gotten along since the turn of
the century, when a group of doctors left Borgess, which had
been founded by the Sisters of St. Joseph, to start their own
hospital. Each hospital, of course, has its own version of
that.
   Borgess says the doctors were kicked out in a
philosophical tiff with a nun about, among other things,
religious influence over medical care. Bronson says the
physicians left after the nuns refused to shorten their
habits, which the doctors believed swept up germ-laden dust
as they swished along the floor.
   Over the next several decades, the hospitals divided up
patients along religious and ethnic lines. "If your name was
Kelly, you went to Borgess," says Dan Ryan, retired editor of
the Kalamazoo Gazette, himself a Borgess baby.
   In the 1950s, Bronson was the first to add a wing and
lease space to physicians, drawing first blood in the war for
supremacy. "You began having guys who were Bronson doctors
and Borgess doctors," says Mr. Ryan.
   In the 1960s and 1970s, Borgess was particularly
successful at recruiting physicians highly trained in such
emerging areas as heart surgery and neurology. With the help
of an infusion of Medicare and other federal health funds,
both institutions established centers for a variety of
medical specialties.
   Bronson has a burn unit, a neonatal intensive care ward
and strong pediatric and women's services. Borgess stresses
cardiology and neurosurgery and does kidney transplants.
   Bronson is a sprawling 442-bed facility crammed into a
downtown city block. Borgess is a 458-bed hospital on 40
acres just two miles away. Both reported revenues of about
$140 million in 1988; both offer comprehensive services for
the treatment of critically ill patients.
   Between 1970 and 1980, the number of physicians in
Kalamazoo doubled, intensifying the use of medical resources
-- and competition. Doctors, with power to refer and admit
patients, are catalysts in hospital battles. When Bronson
refused to purchase expensive surgical tables for some
orthopedic surgeons a few years ago, "they picked up their
scalpels and went across town," says Russell Kneen, former
chief executive at Bronson.
   Regulation plays a crucial role as well. In the early
1980s, the U.S. instituted a program to control Medicare and
Medicaid costs by reducing hospital admissions and shortening
stays. Meantime, Michigan was one of many states that enacted
so-called certificate-of-need laws that require hospitals to
prove the need for expensive new technology and services.
   The result: Between 1984 and 1988, the Kalamazoo
in-patient market shrank by 10%. But certificate-of-need
rules meant that being second with new technology necessary
to compete for the dwindling supply of patients could mean
not getting the technology at all. Competition, already
fierce, turned nasty.
   One early battle was over a $2 million magnetic resonance
imaging machine, the state of the art in diagnostic
technology. At first, the hospitals planned to acquire one
jointly. But when a group of doctors allied with Borgess (and
unaffected by certificate-of-need requirements) bought their
own MRI, Borgess acquired a half interest in the doctors'
machine instead.
   Despite agreements to assure Bronson doctors access to the
MRI, "it's turned out that we've been at a disadvantage,"
says Patric E. Ludwig, Bronson's chief executive officer. Now
Bronson intends to acquire its own MRI, a mobile version that
can be hauled from hospital to hospital. But the Borgess
physicians recently won approval for a mobile unit of their
own.
   Bronson added open-heart surgery to its fledgling
cardiology service in 1987. That nettled Borgess, which has
done 7,000 open-heart operations.
   State health officials ordered Bronson to shut down the
service, on the ground that it lacked a permit. Bronson says
Borgess provoked the action, something Borgess denies. In any
event, Bronson says the order forced one patient, on the eve
of his scheduled surgery, to be transferred -- to Borgess --
for the operation.
   Then the state decided it lacked authority to stop Bronson
from doing open-heart surgery and permitted the procedures to
resume. But Borgess challenged that decision with a pending
lawsuit.
   "You have a hard time convincing me that you need two
heart programs in this town," says R. Timothy Stack,
president of Borgess.
   "They wanted to maintain a monopoly on that service,"
replies Mr. Ludwig.
   Finally, local businesses just couldn't take it anymore --
and not only because of increased costs resulting from
duplicated services. Because reimbursements from Medicaid and
Medicare don't keep pace with costs, both Borgess and Bronson
(as well as hospitals around the country) shift a portion of
those costs to their paying customers, effectively charging
them extra.
   Upjohn and other leading companies, many of which have
executives on the boards of both hospitals, began demanding
some sort of cooperation. In mid-1987, the chief executives
of the two hospitals began merger talks. That led to the
formation of First Health Development Corp., a company
comprising board members and doctors from both institutions.
   "The joke in town is that they took the guns off the
helicopters during merger negotiations," says Kevin
Fickenscher, an assistant dean at Michigan State.
   First Health's plan wasn't to eliminate competition but to
redefine it so the combined hospital would compete with other
hospitals in the region. In October 1988, after over a year
of courtship, Bronson and Borgess announced intentions to
consolidate.
   Almost immediately, the romance turned rocky. In December,
Bronson won its fight to resume open-heart surgery and
refused to delay the service until negotiations were
completed. In January, First Health decided to name a chief
executive. The candidates: Borgess's Mr. Stack and Bronson's
Mr. Ludwig. The result: a 4-4 vote, deadlocked along loyalty
lines. First Health decided to leave the decision up to the
board of the combined hospital.
   Then came the religious issues. Bronson's Methodist
affiliation is little more than a formality, but at Borgess,
each day begins with a prayer over the hospital intercom.
While neither side retained counsel who specialized in
mergers and acquisitions for the talks, Borgess hired a canon
lawyer to protect its religious interests.
   Borgess insisted Bronson agree to bar abortion. Bronson
said abortions had to be available, even though the hospital
had performed just four in 1988. Finally, Bronson agreed to
do no abortions except in cases of anencephaly, in which the
brain fails to develop, or other rare instances when the
prognosis for the fetus is hopeless.
   That wasn't good enough. Last October, talks collapsed.
And this spring, a new front in the war opened: laser
surgery.
   Borgess announced in March it intended to triple its
annual volume of 500 laser procedures. In April, Bronson,
which says it already does 1,500 a year, trumped the plans by
performing the region's first laser gallbladder surgery --
and trumpeting the feat in newspaper ads.
   "They're trying a pre-emptive thing to minimize the impact
of our program," charges J. Patrick Dyson, a Borgess senior
vice president. "One of the surgeons flew in from out of
town," he adds. "It's what we call itinerant surgery."
Bronson concedes the out-of-town surgeon trained the Bronson
doctors in the procedure, but he merely watched "to make sure
everything went fine," says James B. Falahee Jr., Bronson's
general counsel.
   In this environment, businesses are looking at other ways
to keep costs down. Upjohn and other companies are
considering negotiating discount rates in return for a
guaranteed flow of patients. "We've never tried to bid one
against the other," says Upjohn's Dr. Cooper. "But we do have
other responsibilities," including assuring "a fair return to
shareholders."
   The pressure is having some effect. Since 1985, Bronson
has trimmed staff by 9%. It didn't raise rates last year, and
last month announced a 5% across-the-board price cut. It
pledges to cut the difference between Bronson and Grand
Rapids hospitals by half this year. Borgess has reduced its
work force as well and plans package rates for cardiology and
other specialties.
   One important cooperative effort is making headway. In
February, the hospitals announced plans to build a joint $10
million outpatient cancer treatment center downtown. Among
other things, it would mean the purchase of just one
million-dollar linear accelerator (used in radiation
treatment) instead of two.
   A group of local executives called the CEO Council is
prodding the hospitals to consolidate other services. One
prime candidate: the helicopters. The hospitals say each
chopper makes more than 600 flights a year, enough to justify
two. They often back each other up, and it isn't unusual to
see the Bronson helicopter deliver a patient to Borgess and
vice versa.
   Operating both units costs a total of $5 million a year,
says Dave Kovacs, medical director of Borgess Inflight
Medical Services, and combining their operations would save
at least $1 million, even while keeping both choppers
running.
   But the helicopters are objects of intense pride. "We feel
ours has been successful because we are the major trauma
center," Bronson's Mr. Ludwig says. It plays an important
role in Bronson's emergency service, which generates 30% of
patient admissions, he adds.
   Borgess, on the other hand, even distributes postcards and
calendars with pictures of its chopper in flight. And Borgess
proudly says that its was the first to rack up 3,000 trips.
Told that Bronson considers its own service the leader, Mr.
Stack shrugs and says: "It's a popular misconception on their
part."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   `That Devil Burton,' the Great Adventurer
   ----
   By David Shribman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   His colleagues in the army of the Honorable East India
Company called him the "White Nigger" and "that Devil
Burton." Edward Rice, his biographer, calls him "the paradigm
of the scholar-adventurer, a man who towered above others
physically and intellectually, a soldier, scientist, explorer
and writer." History remembers him as Captain Sir Richard
Francis Burton.
   He spoke 29 languages. He passed himself off as an Afghan,
a Gypsy laborer, a peddler of trinkets, a dervish and even a
diplomat. Tramping through such places as Uganda and the
Punjab, he was the ultimate undercover man in what Rudyard
Kipling called the "Great Game," the extension of Europe's
suzerainty over the unmapped expanses of Arabia, the Indian
subcontinent and Africa.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Burton penetrated the dark, secretive lands of Britain's
colonies and helped nudge Victorian Britain toward a more
open view of sexual behavior. A sexual adventurer and
self-styled connoisseur of sensuality, he was a leading
figure in the translation of the Kama Sutra, something of a
Baedeker of the human body.
   To this subject Edward Rice has devoted much of his own
life. Over a period of 18 years and 10 trips to India and
Pakistan, Nepal, Iran, the Arab countries, Israel, Uganda and
Kenya, Mr. Rice spoke to yogis, Sufis, Sikhs, ranis,
maharajahs, sheiks, mahouts, Brahmans and half-castes. The
result is "Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton" (Scribner's,
522 pages, $35), surely the last word on the last great
explorer of the colonial age.
   As a young man Burton was half delinquent, half wiseacre,
the sort of annoying adolescent who angered the dons by
speaking the kind of Latin that Romans spoke rather than the
sort spewed out in the halls of Oxford. At Oxford he plunged
into the forbidding depths of the Kabbala, the medieval
Jewish mystical texts. Later he became sufficiently erudite
in Sufism to preach in the mosques of Sind and Baluchistan.
He was married in a Roman Catholic church.
   His family purchased him a commission in the army of the
Honorable East India Company and soon he set out to be a man
of lore and legend. With a face scarred by a spear wound he
received in a battle with Somali marauders that also cost him
four teeth, Burton was, as Mr. Rice puts it, "enamored of the
exotic, the unusual and the dangerous."
   Burton's greatest skill was his ability to go native. He
loved flowing muslin shirts and big, baggy trousers, felt
comfortable in a cotton skullcap (with 12 yards of ornamental
sprigged muslin wound around it to form a turban) and, in his
days as a Moslem dandy, wore soft slippers made from silk
flowers. "He tried disguises endlessly, like an actor working
out the shadings of a character," says Mr. Rice. "But this
was no act for Burton. If he said he was a Muslim, then he
was one."
   He lunged from enthusiasm to enthusiasm with a passion
unalloyed, applying it to falconry, to cock fighting, to the
abduction of nuns and orphans for sex, and to the love of a
13-year-old whom he described as the "high passion" of his
life. In his Sufi period he joined dervishes as they danced
to exhaustion and ecstasy and then toyed with glowing irons.
   He was convinced that "what might be perilous to other
travelers was safe to me," and set out on a pilgrimage to
Mecca -- a journey through dust, sand, hot winds and endless
emptiness that was, in Mr. Rice's estimation, "almost
madness." Though he envisioned himself a good Moslem, there
were certain deprivations he could not endure. One was the
lack of alcohol. And ignoring women was out of the question;
even during a three-hour sermon in Mecca he was distracted by
a tall girl with whom he flirted shamelessly.
   This sort of thing repeated itself without end. On his
journey to find the origin of the Nile he was stricken with
marsh fever, but at each village he still managed a female
conquest. He trumpeted the virtues of polygamy, arguing that
marriage to one woman was "the most curious delimitation of
human liberty ever forced upon mankind."
   Burton was a prolific writer; in a three-year period in
Africa he turned out nine volumes, each jammed with his
observations. He brought "The Arabian Nights" (with Aladdin
and Ali Baba) to the West and served (sometimes with
disastrous results) as a British consul in places as
disparate as Brazil and Trieste. He spoke out against slavery
and the ritual sacrifices of Dahomey but was equally
outspoken in his warnings to the British. "Everyone knows,"
he wrote as a young man, "that if the people of India could
be unanimous for a day they might sweep us from their country
as dust before a whirlwind."
   Today Burton would be regarded as a rootless boaster with
an identity crisis. But he was more than that, more than even
an undercover agent, roue and explorer. Mr. Rice helps us see
that Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton breached barriers,
not only in Europe's far-flung colonies but in England
itself. For all his excesses, some of them deplorable, Burton
was a man of adventure -- but his achievement (and Edward
Rice's) is that his adventures thrill us still.
   ---
   Mr. Shribman is a staff reporter in the Journal's
Washington bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   VOTRAX Inc. said 58 employees have either quit or been
dismissed since March 1989 as part of the company's
cost-cutting effort. In Monday's edition, the timing of these
departures was misstated.
   (See: "Who's News: Votrax Inc. Dismisses Finance Chief, 6
Others" -- WSJ June 4, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Teachers vs. Kids
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   The time has come to ask just whose side the teachers'
unions, school bureaucrats and some civil-rights groups are
on: their own or the kids who endure the dismal state of
education in so many parts of this country? In Wisconsin, the
answer is becoming very clear.
   There, officials of the state's largest teacher union and
officials of the NAACP are suing to have the nation's first
experiment in school vouchers for low-income children
declared unconstitutional. If they win, the losers will be
hundreds of inner-city children who expect to attend a school
of their own choosing in September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Wisconsin voucher plan is the brainchild of State Rep.
Polly Williams from inner-city Milwaukee. She raised four
children as a single parent on welfare before finally
graduating from college. Elected as a Democrat and twice the
chair of Jesse Jackson's campaign in Wisconsin, she has
nonetheless become convinced that government programs prevent
her constituents from exercising real power and choice in
their lives. Nowhere is this paternalism more evident than in
the public-school monopoly.
   Convinced that the rigid bureaucracy of Milwaukee's public
schools would never reform itself without outside
competition, Mrs. Williams pushed through a bill that will
allow 1,000 low-income Milwaukee students to attend private,
nonsectarian schools. For every child using that option, the
state will pay up to $2,500 in tuition and subtract the money
from the state's support of Milwaukee public schools.
   Mrs. Williams says her plan is not designed to undermine
public education, but to force it to improve. She says the
notion that sending minority children to private schools will
promote segregation and elitism is nonsense. Many Milwaukee
private schools are multicultural or Montessori institutions
with tuitions that are discounted to accommodate lower-income
families. In both Milwaukee and nationwide, minorities make
up 13% of those attending private schools.
   The groups suing to block the Williams plan say the
transfer of money from public to private schools is
unconstitutional, though by that reasoning a city couldn't
contract out garbage collection to a private firm. The real
objection to vouchers is the fear that they will work and
thereby expose the loss of faith in the public-schools
system.
   Milwaukee Alderman Larraine McNamara-McGraw says the
public-school system is "not a perfect structure, but it's
the only one that pretends to educate all the children." Mrs.
Williams says that "pretends" is precisely the right word.
"If you keep giving money to the same doctor and the patient
stays sick, you've got the right to get a second opinion,"
she told us.
   State School Superintendent Herbert Grover has practically
begged teachers' unions to challenge the plan in court. He
calls vouchers "ludicrous," and hopes the suit results in an
injunction that would keep him from implementing the program
this fall. (The NAACP in Wisconsin hasn't yet clarified its
rationale for opposing the program.) Meanwhile, he is forcing
schools that want to accept students with vouchers to comply
with a blizzard of rules by June 15.
   Mrs. Williams expects what she calls "the poverty
industry" to throw up more roadblocks. "We have to be saved
from our saviors," she says. "Our liberal friends have built
their whole lives around taking care of us and they still
want to feed us with Pablum. At some point, we want real
food. We want to make our own decisions whether our liberal
friends like it or not."
   This kind of talk is winning Polly Williams converts on
both the left and right. Elaine Ciulla Kamarck, a senior
fellow at the Progressive Policy Institute, says Mrs.
Williams is challenging "an entrenched establishment whose
livelihood depends on continuing certain programs regardless
of their effectiveness." In Detroit, City Councilman Keith
Butler is supporting a slate of pro-voucher candidates in
this year's school board elections. In Ohio and Kentucky,
black GOP congressional candidates Ken Blackwell and Al Brown
are being urged to make vouchers a cornerstone of their
campaigns.
   As Brookings Institution scholar John Chubb points out in
a nearby article, public education in America resembles
socialist central planning. Like socialism, it cannot be
fixed with half-measures or more spending. The system must be
freed up and competition encouraged.
   That is why the education establishment is trying to drive
out Polly Williams's voucher plan with lawyers and strangling
rules. Mrs. Williams's position is that this reactionary
crowd doesn't have to choose between its own interests and
those of the students: "If you all are worried about your
jobs, try doing them better."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Setting Limits
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Well, it looks as if there may still be one or two things
you still can't do. Even more amazing, you can't even get a
court to legalize approval. This was established in a federal
appeals court in Chicago yesterday, which ruled that two
Illinois policemen couldn't wear diamond ear studs. The court
decision said, "It is obvious from the record that the
plaintiffs not only caused an adverse impact on police
discipline, esprit de corps and uniformity" but also "caused
great public dissatisfaction as well." It's nice to see
esprit de corps win one.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Cold-Fusion Scientists' Lawyer Tells
   Skeptic to Retract Report or Face Suit
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The cold-fusion controversy heated up again after a lawyer
representing two chemists who originated claims about the
phenomenon threatened legal action against a scientist who
cast doubt on its existence.
   The threat was contained in a letter sent to physicist
Michael J. Salamon of the University of Utah by a lawyer
representing chemists B. Stanley Pons and Martin Fleischmann,
who work for a cold-fusion institute affiliated with the
university.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In his letter, the Morganton, N.C., attorney, C. Gary
Triggs, asserted that Mr. Salamon had published a "factually
inaccurate" report on cold fusion that had caused "undue
ridicule and negativism" about the phenomenon. The letter
urged that Mr. Salamon's study on cold fusion "be voluntarily
retracted" and threatened Mr. Salamon with "legal action" to
"protect" the interests of Messrs. Pons and Fleischmann.
   The legal threat, perhaps unprecedented in a scientific
debate, provoked outrage in scientific circles. "I view this
with alarm," said Eugen Merzbacher, president of the American
Physical Society, the main U.S. physics association, who
added that the physics group's executive committee will take
up the matter at its next meeting. Added Richard Muller, a
physicist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in
Berkeley, Calif.: "It's intimidation of the worst kind. If
scientists try to suppress findings with lawsuits, the truth
will have no more meaning in science than it does in
politics."
   A spokesman for the physics society in Washington, D.C.,
said scientists "are calling in asking if they can contribute
to a legal defense fund" for Mr. Salamon.
   Mr. Salamon's paper appeared in the March 29 issue of the
journal Nature. It reported results of experiments performed
to measure neutron emissions from Mr. Pons's cold-fusion
apparatus at the University of Utah. The group didn't find
neutrons that would indicate cold fusion was occurring in the
apparatus -- a finding that many scientists regard as a final
crushing blow to claims that cold fusion exists. The paper
was particularly embarrassing for Messrs. Pons and
Fleischmann because it appeared just before a cold-fusion
conference at the school.
   Messrs. Triggs, Pons and Fleischmann couldn't be reached
for comment. Mr. Salamon asserted that their legal threat is
"detestable" and "antithetical to the spirit of free academic
inquiry." He added that he is seeking assurance from the
University of Utah that it will pay his legal costs if
Messrs. Pons and Fleischmann sue him.
   Mr. Triggs, reportedly a personal friend of Mr. Pons, has
served as an outside patent counsel for the University of
Utah regarding cold-fusion findings. Joseph Taylor, the
University of Utah's vice president of academic affairs, said
university administrators "were horrified" to learn "we were
continuing to pay Triggs (as a patent consultant) when he was
involved in writing a letter harassing a faculty member." He
added that the university is seeking to sever its ties with
Mr. Triggs, who has received a total of about $68,000 from
the school for his services.
   Mr. Taylor said he expects the university to pay Mr.
Salamon's legal fees if he is sued by Messrs. Pons and
Fleischmann.
   Partly because of the escalating cold-fusion controversy,
the University of Utah faculty senate this week passed a
motion requesting its governing board to examine whether the
school's president, Chase N. Peterson, should resign. Mr.
Peterson, who has helped promote the school's cold-fusion
research, responded in a statement that the motion "must be
taken seriously" and that he expects to hold discussions
concerning it after the school's commencement this week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Saatchi Posts First-Half Net Loss
   Of $11.8 Million, Skips Dividend
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA IPG WNEWS Z
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- More bad news hit Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Co. as it
reported a #7 million ($11.8 million) net loss for its fiscal
first half and, for the first time, skipped its interim
dividend.
   The beleaguered British advertising and consulting giant
blamed the persistent red ink on higher debt levels, the
advertising slowdown in the United Kingdom and losses from
its consulting business. And Saatchi may be unable to resume
paying a dividend on its ordinary shares before fiscal 1991,
Robert Louis-Dreyfus, chief executive, indicated in an
interview here. "It's more important for me to reduce our
debt than pay our dividend," said the French-born executive
who took the Saatchi helm in January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a more positive sign, Saatchi yesterday reached
tentative agreement on the long-awaited management buy-out of
its Hay Group unit. About 128 partners of the
Philadelphia-based consulting firm, along with certain
institutional investors, would pay Saatchi $80 million in
cash plus a $10 million note. The sale would nearly complete
Saatchi's pullback from management consulting, a field it
once vowed to dominate world-wide. Analysts believe the
diversification strategy flopped because Saatchi overpaid for
the businesses and took on a crushing load of debt.
   Saatchi has said the sale of Hay and five other consulting
businesses should reduce debt, otherwise expected to average
#260 million, by reaping #80 million in the year ending Sept.
30. In addition, Mr. Louis-Dreyfus insisted that layoffs and
other cost-cutting efforts have begun to lower Saatchi's high
overhead costs. He said cash flow turned positive April 1.
   But some analysts contend Saatchi may need two years to
return to profitability and three years to unload its heavy
debt. "They are going to have problems for a long time," said
James Dougherty, an analyst at County NatWest Securities in
New York. Agreed analyst Brian Sturgess of London securities
house Barclays de Zoete Wedd: "I think there is worse to
come."
   Investors nevertheless ignored the larger-than-expected
net loss, which followed Saatchi's first-ever net loss in
fiscal 1989, and instead reacted positively to the Hay
accord. Saatchi shares rose six pence to 107 pence ($1.81) in
late trading on London's Stock Exchange. The once high-flying
Saatchi share price has tumbled more than 60% from its 1990
high point.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Saatchi's
American depositary shares rose 37.5 cents to $5.625.
   For the first half of fiscal 1989, Saatchi paid an interim
dividend of 7.4 pence on ordinary shares and then slashed its
final dividend for the second half of fiscal 1989 to 1.6
pence.
   Pretax profit in the six months ended March 31 slid 29% to
#14.4 million from #20.2 million a year earlier, which was
close to analysts' projections. The latest figures include an
extraordinary gain of #2.4 million, representing a #4.7
million profit from selling works of art and #2.3 million in
costs from merging and closing small European operations. The
year-earlier period had an exceptional charge of #2.7 million
from reorganization costs.
   Revenue during the first half rose 12% to #505 million
from #451.3 million. Saatchi's #7 million net loss compared
with profit of #1.5 million, or a penny a share, in the same
1989 period.
   Saatchi said its consulting unit had a "disappointing"
performance, posting a #700,000 operating loss, compared with
operating profit of #8 million in fiscal 1989. The unit's
revenue slid 3% to #115 million. "The decision to sell these
businesses has had an adverse impact on profit performance,"
the company said.
   The proposed Hay sale involves management and
institutional investors led by CIN Venture Managers Ltd., a
big U.K. venture-capital group. The deal would come with some
strings attached: Saatchi said the $10 million subordinated
note has "uncertain" value and that it agreed to pay as much
as $9 million of the purchasers' expenses.
   The Hay sale "has come through for less than what was
hoped," said David Forster, an analyst at Kleinwort Benson
Securities in London. But "they {Saatchi} wanted to get out
of consulting."
   When Saatchi put its dozen or so consulting businesses on
the block a year ago, analysts figured the units would fetch
between #250 million and #350 million. The company also had
hoped to complete the sales by last fall. But the impression
that Saatchi was holding a fire sale severely hurt prices. So
did recent problems in financial markets, which made it
difficult for buyers to raise financing.
   Counting projected sale proceeds and the retained
market-research business, Saatchi probably will recoup about
half of the #250 million spent on its flawed consulting
diversification. "Clearly, we're still looking at a
significant loss" from the investment, a second Saatchi
official said.
   Operating profit in the communications unit, which
includes advertising and other marketing services, increased
a hefty 40% to #31 million, while revenue advanced 17% to
#390 million. But favorable currency movements and transfer
of the market-research operation to the unit inflated the
revenue figure.
   Saatchi is facing a much harsher advertising climate in
Britain than in the U.S. Its U.K. communications business
suffered a nearly 4% drop in first-half revenue, compared
with a roughly 8.2% revenue gain in the U.S. at constant
exchange rates. The British unit's operating profit was
"basically break-even" during the period, Mr. Louis-Dreyfus
reported, down from #3.5 million in the first six months of
fiscal 1989.
   "The problem is that the {U.K.} clients aren't spending
what they said they would when we did our budget last year,"
he added. But "we have every indication that we will be
solidly profitable in the U.K. for the {full} year."
   Mr. Louis-Dreyfus also stressed that he wants to improve
profit margins for Saatchi's main competing international
advertising groups, Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising and Backer
Spielvogel Bates Worldwide. He hinted, however that he might
someday consider selling one ad network, a profit-revival
strategy advocated by some analysts.
   "I have no intention at the present time to sell a
network," he said. "But I will do anything I have to do to be
able to refinance" a European convertible preference issue
coming due in 1993. Otherwise, the issue could cost Saatchi
as much as #211 million when it comes due.
   Saatchi also disclosed that a U.S. fund manager, New
York-based Tweedy Browne Co., has acquired a 4.08% stake,
which will lift the proportion of shares held by U.S. holders
to 38% from 34%.
   ---
   Lowe U.S. Agency Merger
                                                                                                       

   Lowe International merged its two U.S. ad agencies, Lowe
Marschalk and Lowe Tucker Metcalf.
   In combining the two shops' operations, Lowe said it would
rename the agency Lowe &amp; Partners. Lowe International, part
of Lowe Group, said it was "a logical time to combine
forces," having recently acquired total ownership of Lowe
Marschalk.
   Interpublic Group last year swapped its interest in Lowe
Marschalk for a larger interest in Lowe Group; it now owns
35.4% of Lowe Group.
   Andrew J. Langer, Lowe Marschalk's chief executive
officer, will retain that post at the newly named shop. David
Metcalf and Dennis D'Amico, both of Lowe Tucker, were named
joint creative directors. Lowe Marschalk, with billings of
about $300 million, serves clients including Prudential
Insurance and Coca-Cola. Lowe Tucker's billings are about $35
million.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Anderson-Little/ Richman Bros., Fall River,
Mass., awarded its $10 million ad account to Leonard Monahan
Lubars &amp; Partners, Providence, R.I. Anderson-Little, a unit
of Woolworth Corp., operates retail clothing stores. The
account was previously handled by Cabot Communications,
Boston.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Immunex's GM-CSF
   Clears FDA Hurdle
   For Orphan Rights
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IMNX G.HFA
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Immunex Corp. said federal regulators granted
so-called orphan drug designation to the company's first
drug, giving the biotechnology company exclusive rights to
market the drug for seven years if regulators approve the
drug.
   The orphan designation is a boon for Immunex, which
applied with the Food and Drug Administration last February
for a license to sell the drug, called granulocyte macrophage
colony stimulating factor, or GM-CSF. Immunex said it spent
over $20 million to develop the drug, the company's first to
apply for FDA approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FDA's orphan designation for GM-CSF covers treatment
of certain bad side effects of bone-marrow transplants and
the promotion of successful bone-marrow transplants. The drug
is an immune-system hormone that stimulates growth of
infection-fighting white blood cells.
   The FDA grants orphan status to certain drugs that have
small patient populations. The status is meant to encourage
drug companies to develop products that might not be
profitable without exclusive marketing rights that protect
the drug from competition. The seven-year exclusivity "would
give us the opportunity to recoup the investment we've made
in the drug," said Stephen A. Duzan, chairman and chief
executive officer of Immunex.
   The orphan designation "is also an indication that our
first application is moving well through the FDA; when you
haven't yet got a product to market that's obviously
gratifying," he said. Mr. Duzan said he expects FDA approval
to come by early next year. Immunex developed the drug
jointly with Hoechst AG of West Germany, he said.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Immunex
closed at $26.25, up 75 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ousted Chairman
   Of Abbott Accuses
   Company in Filing
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   ABT
</CO>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Abbott Laboratories' ousted chairman, Robert
Schoellhorn, called accusations that he stole from the
company a "fabricated" effort to deny him $3.8 million of
Abbott stock and to ruin his business reputation.
   In a filing in state court here, Mr. Schoellhorn said
Abbott's charges were made "in direct retaliation" for a
lawsuit he filed in March seeking to keep the board of the
pharmaceutical and hospital-product company from removing him
as chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The filing contains Mr. Schoellhorn's most detailed
assertions thus far in what has become an unusually public
battle between a highly profitable company and the man who
ran it successfully for a decade. Neither Mr. Schoellhorn nor
Abbott's directors have said publicly what set off the
bizarre series of accusations.
   Abbott's board removed Mr. Schoellhorn as chief executive
officer in December and stripped his remaining post,
chairman, of most of its power. In March, Abbott directors
sought to remove him from that post as well. He sued to stop
them, alleging, among other things, that they improperly
changed the company bylaws.
   Mr. Schoellhorn and his attorney, John H. Mathias Jr.,
wouldn't elaborate on the filing, which seeks to add counts
to the existing suit, or discuss the rift with the board. The
filing does, however, mention what Mr. Schoellhorn calls "a
serious breach of confidence" by one or more outside
directors, which he wanted to investigate. The filing doesn't
explain the alleged breach, but asserts that his firing
"pre-empted" any investigation.
   North Chicago-based Abbott, after Mr. Schoellhorn's suit,
sought to fire him "for cause," meaning it could withhold
certain benefits. The company alleged that he used its
aircraft for personal matters, submitted false expense
reports, and claimed as his own art objects that were gifts
to Abbott.
   Mr. Schoellhorn denied these charges in yesterday's
filing. He said Duane L. Burnham, the former chief financial
officer that the board chose to succeed him, was responsible
for Abbott's aircraft and its accounting records.
   "It was Mr. Burnham's job to question and rectify anything
he thought was improper regarding use of company aircraft or
other assets by Abbott executives," Mr. Schoellhorn said in
the filing, adding: "As Mr. Burnham well knows, Mr.
Schoellhorn's use of company aircraft, assets and personnel
have been consistent with normal business practice and
satisfactory to Abbott's internal auditors, external
auditors, Board Audit Committee, and Mr. Burnham himself."
   An Abbott spokesman said the company and Mr. Burnham
wouldn't comment.
   The art work in question is a painting and an urn, both
gifts from Japanese companies, according to the filing. The
urn was presented to Mr. Schoellhorn and his wife as a
personal gift in their home in Highland Park, Ill., and the
painting hung there for more than three years while he
entertained Abbott executives and directors, according to the
filing. Only after Mr. Schoellhorn's suit was filed in March,
he asserts, did Abbott say he shouldn't have the painting or
the urn.
   If the company is allowed by the courts to fire Mr.
Schoellhorn with cause, it could keep 51,600 Abbott common
shares awarded to him under a restricted stock plan. Mr.
Schoellhorn said in the filing that the company has withheld
his dividend on the stock, and refused to issue a like amount
of shares due to him from a 2-for-1 stock split, thereby
diluting his holdings.
   Before his suit was filed, Mr. Schoellhorn said he was
assured repeatedly into March 1990 by James Bere, Borg-Warner
Corp. chief executive and chairman of the Abbott board's
compensation committee, that those shares wouldn't be taken
from him.
   Mr. Bere couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900606-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900606-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eurovaleur Offers New Team Approach
   For Big Investments in European Stocks
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   G.CBK WNEWS Z.CSU EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The invest-in-Europe bandwagon is getting a new calliope.
   It's one more sign of the rush to capitalize on the
presumed gold mine of unifying Western Europe and rebuilding
Eastern Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest wrinkle comes from New York-based Eurovaleur
Inc., a new money management firm specializing in publicly
traded European stocks. The firm is starting a new venture
headlined by a "star" money manager, Felix Zulauf, a Swiss
who is well known in U.S. investment circles.
   But this isn't a solo venture. While Mr. Zulauf, in
Zurich, makes broad asset allocation decisions, such as how
much to invest where, 11 different money managers in as many
countries will run portfolios in 14 European stock markets.
   Commerz International Capital Management G.m.b.H., a unit
of Commerzbank AG of West Germany, will evaluate and
supervise the country managers. To maintain independence, the
West German bank doesn't hold a stake in Eurovaleur.
   "It's a unique way for Americans and Asians to invest in
European equities," said Mr. Zulauf, who is resigning as
chief investment officer of Zurich-based Clariden Bank, a
unit of Credit Suisse Holdings S.A. "You don't have to go to
10 or 15 individual countries or managers."
   U.S., Japanese and other Asian money invested in multiple
European markets is usually managed from a major money center
such as New York or London. But Mr. Zulauf and his partners
at Eurovaleur contend this technique is faulty.
   "An American operating out of the U.S. or London talks to
brokers in individual countries," he said. "Brokers' first
interest is in volume, turnover, and not good, long-term
performance." Moreover, the American "has to compete in each
market with a professional domiciled in that market who knows
the market inside and out," he said.
   A minimum investment with Eurovaleur is $5 million;
investing $20 million wins the right to have the funds
independently managed. Participation is restricted to
institutional investors.
   European markets have been attractive, especially because
of the weak dollar, euphoria surrounding the planned 1992
abolition of trade and investment barriers among the 12
countries of the European Community, and the recent collapse
of communist regimes in Eastern Europe.
   In the five years to May 31, Morgan Stanley Capital
International's Europe index rose 200.3% in dollar terms. In
the same period, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose
118.69%. The two European markets that posted the biggest
gains in those five years were Sweden, up 396.1% in dollar
terms, and Austria, up 382%.
   In the first five months of this year, the Europe index
climbed only 2.8% vs. the Dow's 4.48% increase. But the
Austrian market has climbed a hefty 24.1% and the Norwegian
market 22.1%.
   Nonetheless, Sonja Kohn, Eurovaleur's president, who also
remains president of Windsor I.B.C., a privately held New
York broker-dealer that specializes in European business,
said that investing in Europe can be tricky. "To really know
what's going on in Europe, you've got to be part of the
establishment," she said. Compared with the U.S., "There is
less regulation, the flow of information is different, there
are no Chinese walls between investment banking and brokers."
   For example, she said, the Swiss pharmaceutical giant F.
Hoffmann-La Roche &amp; Co. carries its real estate holdings --
valued at as much as an estimated three billion Swiss francs
($2.09 billion) -- on its books at one franc (70 cents). "You
can't sit in New York and London and expect to understand
what's going on," she declared.
   The emphasis at Eurovaleur will be on performance. Daily,
Commerzbank and Mr. Zulauf will be able to judge how well the
11 country managers -- each has outpaced his domestic market
over the past five years -- is doing, Mrs. Kohn said.
   A U.S. investor can't afford to ignore European markets,
Mr. Zulauf said. "You have a lot of momentum going on 1992,
and Eastern Europe should extend that momentum," he said.
"The greater Germany will be on a major fiscal expansion
program for the next couple of years," and the demand created
by that spending "will spill over throughout Europe," he
predicted. What's more, "The long-term theme is capital
goods," Mr. Zulauf said, noting that West Germany is "the
major capital goods producer in the world."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
